The Project Gutenberg eBook, Canoemates, by Kirk Munroe


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Canoemates
       A Story of the Florida Reef and Everglades


Author: Kirk Munroe



Release Date: June 2, 2020  [eBook #62301]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CANOEMATES***


E-text prepared by Val Wooff and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
(http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made available by
Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 62301-h.htm or 62301-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/62301/62301-h/62301-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/62301/62301-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/canoematesstoryo00munriala


Transcriber's note:

      Emphasised text is shown thus: _italics_  =bold=





[Illustration: SUMNER AT HOME. (Page 18)]


CANOEMATES

A Story of the Florida Reef and Everglades

by

KIRK MUNROE

Author of
"The Flamingo Feather" "Derrick Sterling"
"Dorymates" "Campmates" etc.

Illustrated


[Illustration]






New York
Harper & Brothers, Franklin Square
1893

Copyright, 1892, by HARPER & BROTHERS.

All rights reserved.




CONTENTS.


  CHAPTER                                                    PAGE

        I.  IN THE FAR SOUTH                                    1
       II.  THREE CANOES, AND THE FATE OF ONE                   8
      III.  SUMNER RECEIVES A SECOND OFFER                     18
       IV.  TEACHING A THIEF A LESSON                          26
        V.  THE GREAT FLORIDA REEF                             33
       VI.  PINEAPPLES AND SPONGES                             41
      VII.  MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF THE CANOES             49
     VIII.  LIFE ON THE LONELY ISLAND                          57
       IX.  THE NOCTURNAL VISITOR                              64
        X.  WHOSE ARE THEY? AND WHERE DID THEY COME FROM?      73
       XI.  SUMNER DRIFTS AWAY ON A RAFT                       80
      XII.  PICKED UP IN THE GULF STREAM                       89
     XIII.  A MYSTERY OF THE REEF                              96
      XIV.  WORTH AND QUORUM ARE MISSING                      105
       XV.  WORTH AND QUORUM IN SEARCH OF SUMNER              112
      XVI.  A NIGHT IN ALLIGATOR LIGHT                        121
     XVII.  AN ENTERTAINMENT ON THE KEY                       128
    XVIII.  OFF FOR THE EVERGLADES                            137
      XIX.  THE CANOES ARE AGAIN LOST, AND AGAIN FOUND        145
       XX.  THE PSYCHE AS A LIFE-BOAT                         153
      XXI.  SUMNER'S SELF-SACRIFICE                           160
     XXII.  GOOD-BYE TO THE TRANSIT                           168
    XXIII.  WORTH MEETS A PANTHER                             175
     XXIV.  RATTLESNAKES AND RIFLE-SHOTS                      184
      XXV.  WORTH'S LONELY NIGHT-WATCH                        192
     XXVI.  THE FLORIDA EVERGLADES                            201
    XXVII.  A PREHISTORIC EVERGLADE MOUND                     209
   XXVIII.  WHAT BECAME OF QUORUM AND THE CANOES              218
     XXIX.  A VERY SERIOUS PREDICAMENT                        226
      XXX.  QUORUM AS AN AMBASSADOR                           234
     XXXI.  A CLOSELY GUARDED CAMP                            242
    XXXII.  CROSSING THE 'GLADES WITHOUT SEEING THEM          250
   XXXIII.  AN ADVENTUROUS DEER-HUNT                          258
    XXXIV.  HEMMED IN BY A FOREST FIRE                        266
     XXXV.  THE BOYS IN A SEMINOLE CAMP                       275
    XXXVI.  ONE OF THE RAREST ANIMALS IN THE WORLD            284
   XXXVII.  FISHING FOR SHARKS                                292
  XXXVIII.  LITTLE KO-WIK-A SAILS OUT TO SEA                  301
    XXXIX.  A BLACK SQUALL AND THE STRANDED STEAMER           308
       XL.  THE HAPPY ENDING OF THE CRUISE                    317




  ILLUSTRATIONS.


  SUMNER AT HOME                                   _Frontispiece._

  "WITH THE NEXT SEND OF THE SEA THE
  CANVAS CANOE WAS CRUSHED BENEATH
  THE PONDEROUS BOWS"                              _Facing p._ 18

  "HE RETURNED TO THE BUOY, ON WHICH
  THE RECENT FUGITIVE WAS NOW SITTING"               "         30

  THE "CUPID" AND "PSYCHE" START ON
  THEIR CRUISE                                       "         32

  TORCH-FISHING FOR MULLET                           "         40

  THE CANOES ARE GONE                                "         48

  "'SOME ONE WAS TRYING TO PULL MY GUN AWAY'"        "         64

  "THE LATTER WAS ROLLING ON THE GROUND
  AT THE FOOT OF A COCOANUT-TREE"                    "         68

  A GREAT DISCOVERY                                  "         78

  QUORUM IS HAPPY                                    "         84

  "TWO PAIRS OF POWERFUL ARMS DRAGGED
  HIM INTO THE BOAT"                                 "         94

  "AS HE STEPPED ASHORE A PLEASANT-FACED
  YOUNG MAN ADVANCED TO MEET HIM"                    "        108

  QUORUM RESIGNS HIMSELF TO FATE                     "        126

  QUORUM DANCES A BREAK-DOWN                         "        136

  "HE FOUND RUST NORRIS CROUCHING IN THE
  LEE OF THE LITTLE DECK-HOUSE"                      "        158

  REPAIRING THE "PUNKIN SEED"                        "        168

  "A VOLLEY OF RIFLE-SHOTS FLASHED AND
  ROARED FROM THE FOREST"                            "        188

  "ROUGH-LOOKING CHARACTERS, WHOM HE
  AT ONCE RECOGNIZED AS SOUTH FLORIDA
  COWBOYS"                                           "        200

  "HIS WRISTS WERE UNBOUND, AND THE
  CLOTH THAT ENVELOPED HIS HEAD WAS
  SNATCHED FROM IT"                                  "        220

  "DIRECTLY AFTERWARDS A CANOE APPEARED
  AT THE OPENING IN THE BUSHES"                      "        240

  "THEY WERE SUDDENLY CONFRONTED BY
  AN INDIAN ARMED WITH A RIFLE"                      "        248

  "THE ORDEAL OF FIRE LASTED BUT A MINUTE"           "        272

  SUMNER AND WORTH IN THE SEMINOLE CAMP              "        282

  SUMNER RESCUES KO-WIK-A                            "        310

  "THE SURPRISE AND DELIGHT OF THE TWO
  GENTLEMEN CAN BETTER BE IMAGINED
  THAN DESCRIBED"                                    "        322




_CANOEMATES._

_A Story of the Everglades._




CHAPTER I.

IN THE FAR SOUTH.


"Really, mother, it doesn't seem as though I could stand it any
longer! Life in this place isn't worth living, especially when it's a
life of poverty, and what people call 'genteel poverty,' as ours is.
Our struggle is for bare existence, and there doesn't seem to be any
future to it. If you'd only let me go to New York, I'm sure I could do
something there that was worth the doing, but I can't do anything here,
and I'd almost rather die than live here any longer!" With this Sumner
Rankin flung himself into a chair, and his flushed face was as heavily
clouded as though life held nothing of hope or happiness for him.

"Why, my dear boy," exclaimed his mother, standing beside him and
smoothing his tumbled brown curls with her cool hands, "what is the
matter? I never knew you to speak so bitterly before."

Mrs. Rankin still looked so young and pretty that she might almost be
taken for an elder sister of the handsome, seventeen-year-old boy over
whom she now bent so tenderly.

To the casual observer the Rankins' home was a very pleasant one. It
was a pretty, broad-verandaed cottage nestled in the shadows of a clump
of towering cocoanut palms, on the far southern island of Key West.
It stood on the outskirts of the town, and so close to the beach that
the warm waters of the Mexican Gulf rippling on the coral rocks behind
it made a ceaseless melody for its inmates. Jasmine-vines clambered
over it, glossy-leaved myrtles, a hedge of night-blooming cereus and
other sweet-scented tropical shrubs perfumed the air about it. Through
these, looking out from the shaded coolness of the verandas, the eye
caught fascinating glimpses of blue waters with white sails constantly
passing, and stately men-of-war swinging idly at their moorings. It
looked an ideal home; but even in this tropical Eden there was one very
large serpent, besides several that were smaller though almost equally
annoying. The big one was poverty, and it held the Rankins in its
dread embrace as though with no intention of relaxing it.

Mrs. Rankin was the widow of a naval officer who had been stationed
at Key West a few years before. He had sent his wife and only child
north to escape a dreadful summer of yellow-fever, while he had stayed
and died at his post. Shortly before his death Commander Rankin,
believing that Key West property was about to increase rapidly in
value, had invested all that he had in the little jasmine-clad cottage,
expecting to be able to sell it at a handsome profit when his term of
service at that station should expire. Thus it was all that remained
to his family, and to this haven Mrs. Rankin, sad-eyed and wellnigh
broken-hearted, had returned with her boy. The fever had caused real
estate to become of so little value that there was no chance of selling
the cottage; so they were forced to live in it, and the widow eked out
her scanty pension by letting such rooms as she could spare to lodgers.
During the pleasant winter season she rarely had difficulty in filling
them, but through the long, hot summer months desirable lodgers were
few and far between, and the poverty serpent enfolded them closely.

One of the lesser serpents against which the Rankins had to contend
was the lack of congenial society; for, with the exception of a few
government employes and those whose business compels them to live
there, the population of Key West is composed of spongers and wreckers,
Cuban and negro cigar-makers. Another was the lack of good schools,
and the worst of all was the lack of suitable business openings for
Sumner, or "Summer," as his Chinese nurse had called him when he was
a baby, and as he had been called ever since on account of his bright
face and sunny disposition. He would have loved dearly to go through
the Naval Academy and follow the profession that had been his father's,
but the Rankins had no political influence, and without that there
was no chance. He could not go into a cigar-factory, and though his
boyish love of adventure had led him to take several trips on sponging
vessels, it was not the business for a gentleman.

Born in China, the boy had, with his mother, followed his naval father
to many of the principal ports of the world. Both his father and mother
had devoted all their spare time to his education, and thus he was
well informed in many branches of which the average boy knows little
or nothing. He loved the sea and everything connected with it. From
his babyhood he had played with and sailed boats. Now there was no
better sailor in Key West than he, nor one more at home among the reefs
of those southern waters. He knew the secrets of boat-building from
keel to truck, and from stem to stern, while his favorite employment
was the whittling out of models, the drawing of sail plans, and the
designing of yachts. But nobody wanted yachts in Key West, nor did
its sailors care to have improved models for their fishing-boats or
sponge-vessels. So Sumner was considered a dreamer, and people said he
ought to be doing something besides whittling and idling about home.
The boy thought so himself, but what to do and how to set about it were
problems the attempted solution of which caused him many an unhappy
hour.

On the perfect winter day that he had come home in such a despairing
frame of mind, his own life had just been presented in vivid contrast
to that of another boy who seemed to have the very things that Sumner
most longed for. He had been down to the wharf to see the _Olivette_,
the West Indian fast mail-steamer from Tampa, come in. There he had
been particularly attracted by a boy somewhat younger than himself,
standing with a gentleman, whom Sumner supposed to be his father,
on the after-deck. As the steamer neared the wharf this boy amused
himself by flinging silver coins into the water for the fun of seeing
little negroes dive after them.

"Only think, mother!" exclaimed Sumner in relating this incident,
"he threw money away as I would so many pebbles, and didn't seem to
value it any more. Just imagine a boy having money to waste like that!
And some of those little rascals who dived for it made more in a few
minutes than I have to spend in months."

"But, Sumner," said Mrs. Rankin, gravely, "I hope your unhappiness does
not arise from jealousy of another's prosperity?"

"Yes, it does, mother," replied the boy, honestly; "though it isn't
only because he could throw money away; it is because he has the very
thing that I would rather have than anything else in the world--the
prettiest, daintiest, cedar sailing canoe that ever was built. I never
saw one before, but I've read of them, and studied their plans until I
know all about them. She is as different from my old canvas thing as a
scow is from a yacht."

"But you thought your canvas canoe very nearly perfect when you built
her."

"I know I did, but I have learned better since then, and now it seems
as though I should never care to look at it again."

Yet this same despised canvas canoe, which Sumner had built himself
the year before without ever having seen one, had been considered both
by himself and his friends a masterpiece of naval construction, and he
had cruised in her ever since with great satisfaction.

"You have yet to learn, dear, that it is ever so much harder to be
satisfied with the things we have than to obtain those for which we
long, no matter how far beyond our reach they may seem," said Mrs.
Rankin, gently.

"I suppose it is, mother, and I know it is horrid to come to you
with my miserable complainings; but I wish I had never seen those
canoes--for there were two of them just alike--and I wish wealthy
people wouldn't come to Key West with such things. They don't do us
any good, and only make us feel our poverty the more keenly. Why,
there they are now! Turning in here too! What can they want with us,
I wonder? I won't see them at any rate. I've no more use for wealthy
snobs than they have for me."

So saying, Sumner left the room by a rear door, and the steps of the
approaching visitors sounded on the front veranda.




CHAPTER II.

THREE CANOES, AND THE FATE OF ONE.


As Sumner's mother opened the door, she saw that the gentleman who,
politely lifting his hat, asked if she were Mrs. Rankin, was too young
to be the father of the boy by his side.

"May I introduce myself as Mr. Tracy Manton, of New York?" he said,
when she had answered his question in the affirmative; "and my nephew,
Master Worth Manton? We have called to see if we can engage rooms here
for a week or so. We will take our meals at the hotel; but we have two
canoes that we propose fitting out here for a cruise up the reef, and
we want to find a place close to the water where we can keep them in
safety, and at the same time be near them. Mr. Merrill advised us to
come here, and it looks as though this were exactly the place of which
we are in search. So if you can accommodate us we shall esteem it a
great favor."

With the remembrance of Sumner's last words, Mrs. Rankin hesitated a
moment before replying; whereupon Mr. Manton added: "I trust you are
not going to refuse us, for I have set my heart on coming here, and
will gladly pay full hotel rates for the accommodation."

"If my vacant rooms suit you I shall be pleased to let you have them
at my regular rate, which is all they are worth," answered the widow,
quietly, as she reflected on the poverty which would not allow even a
mother's feelings to interfere with honorable bread-winning. "Will you
step in and look at them?"

"We are in luck, my boy, and our little expedition has begun most
prosperously," said Mr. Tracy Manton an hour later, as he and his
nephew sat in one of the two pretty back-rooms that they had engaged,
surrounded by their belongings, and looking out on the sparkling
waters of the Gulf. On the grass of the palm-shaded back yard, and in
plain sight from the windows, lay the two canoes that had so excited
Sumner's admiration and envy. They were indeed beauties as they lay
there divested of their burlap wrappings, and that they were fresh
from the builder's hands was shown by their unscratched varnish and
gleaming metal fittings. They were fifteen feet long by thirty inches
wide amidships, were provided with folding metal centre-boards, metal
drop-rudders, foot-and-hand steering gear, water-tight compartments
fore and aft, and were decked, with the exception of their roomy
cockpits. These were surrounded by stout oak coamings three inches
high, sharp-pointed, and flaring outward at the forward ends, but cut
down so as to be flush with the deck aft. Beside them lay the confused
mass of paddles, sails, spars, canoe tents, rubber aprons, cushions,
and cordage, that completed their equipment. They were simply perfect
in every detail, and the most beautiful things Sumner Rankin had ever
set his eyes upon. At least he thought so, as, returning from a long
tramp on which he had tried to walk off his unhappiness, he found them
lying in the yard. In spite of his surprise at seeing them there, and a
return of his unwelcome feeling of envy, he could not help stopping to
admire them and study their details.

"Hello!" exclaimed Mr. Manton, again looking from his window. "There's
a chap down there staring his eyes out at our boats. I shouldn't wonder
if he were our landlady's son--the one, you know, we were advised to
engage as a guide. You wait here while I run down and find out."

So Worth waited and watched from the window to note the result of his
uncle's negotiations.

At a first glance one would have said that Worth Manton was an
effeminate boy, with a pale face, blue eyes, and fair hair. If,
however, the observer looked long enough to note the square chin, the
occasional compression of the thin lips, and flash of the eyes, he
might form a different opinion. He was the son of Guy Manton, the great
Wall Street operator who had made a fortune out of western railroads,
and he had all his life been accustomed to lavish luxury. He was
rather delicate, and it was largely on his account that his parents
had decided to spend a winter at St. Augustine. The boy had taken but
slight interest in the gayeties of the Ponce de Leon, nor had he gained
any benefit from the chill rain-storms driven in from the ocean by
the east winds of midwinter. The doctor had advised his going farther
south; and when his uncle Tracy proposed that they make a canoe trip
up the great Florida Reef, which lies off the most southerly coast of
the United States, Worth had eagerly seconded the proposition, and had
finally won the reluctant consent of his parents.

He knew nothing of canoeing, nor did his uncle know much more; but the
latter was a good yachtsman, and Worth had had some experience of the
same kind, so they felt confident they could manage. They intended
to devote some time to studying their craft, and learning their
possibilities in the waters about Key West; so two canoes, completely
equipped, were ordered from the builder by telegraph. Worth's father
promised to charter a yacht, sail down the coast in it, and meet them
at Cape Florida about the first of April, and the two would-be canoemen
started for Key West full of pleasant anticipations.

Sumner Rankin started at being asked if that were his name, for he
had not heard Mr. Manton's step on the grass behind him, and answered
rather curtly that it was.

"Well," said the young man, plunging into business at once, as was his
habit, "I have been told that you are a first-class sailor, as well as
a good reef pilot. My nephew and I are going to cruise up the reef,
and I should like to engage your services as boatman and guide. I am
willing to pay--"

"It makes no difference what you are willing to pay," interrupted
Sumner, with flushed cheeks and flashing eyes. "My services as boatman
are not for hire at any price."

With this assertion of his pride, or, as he imagined, of his
independence, the boy turned and walked into the house.

"Whew!" whistled Mr. Manton, gazing after the retreating form in
amazement. "There's a bit of dynamite for you! Pride and poverty mixed
in equal parts do make a most powerful explosive. However, I haven't
forgotten my own days of poverty, and can fully appreciate the boy's
feelings. I'll try him on a different tack as soon as this little
squall has blown over. He and his mother must be different from the
majority of the people down here, for they are the first we have met
who don't seem to want to make money out of us."

Mr. Tracy Manton had no idea of giving up his purpose of engaging
Sumner to accompany them on their trip, for he was the kind of a man
who wins his way by sticking to whatever plan he has decided upon, in
which respect his nephew Worth strongly resembled him. So the next
time he met the lad, which was in the afternoon of the following day,
he held out his hand and said: "I beg your pardon for my unintentional
rudeness of yesterday, and my forgetfulness of the fact that a
gentleman is such, no matter where he is found. Now, I want you to
forgive me, forget my offence, and do me a favor. I can't make head or
tail of our sails, and they don't seem to me right somehow. If you will
come and look at them I shall be greatly obliged."

By this time Sumner was so heartily ashamed of his conduct of the day
before that he was only too glad to accept this overture of friendship,
and a few minutes later the two were busily discussing the sails of the
_Cupid_ and _Psyche_, as the Mantons' canoes were named. The spars were
much heavier than they need be, while the sails were of the ill-shaped,
unserviceable pattern generally furnished by canoe builders, and these
defects were quickly detected by Sumner's experienced eye. When he
pointed them out to Mr. Manton, the latter readily comprehended them,
but was at a loss how to make the improvements that were evidently
demanded.

In order to explain more thoroughly the idea that he wished to convey,
Sumner dragged out his own canvas canoe, stepped her masts, and hoisted
her sails. They were of a most ingenious and effective lateen pattern,
such as Mr. Manton had never before seen.

"Where did you get hold of that idea?" he asked, after studying them
carefully a few moments. "It is a capital one."

"I got it partly from an Arab dhow that I once saw off Madagascar, and
partly from the feluccas at Civita Vecchia."

"Madagascar and the Mediterranean!" repeated Mr. Manton, in
astonishment. "If you have visited both of those places you must have
travelled extensively."

"Yes," answered Sumner, quietly, but with a twinkle of amusement in
his eye. "The son of a naval officer who attempts to follow his father
about the world is apt to see a good bit of it before he gets through."

Mr. Manton, who had known nothing of Sumner's history, no longer
wondered that he had been offended at being taken for a boatman whose
services could be hired. He was, however, too wise to make further
mention of the subject, and merely said,

"Then you have had a splendid chance to study sails." And again turning
to the subject under consideration, he asked, "Would you be willing to
help us cut out some for our canoes after your models?"

Sumner answered that he would not only be willing but glad to lend
every aid in his power towards properly equipping the two canoes for
their trip.

In the mean time the sun had set, and the sky was black with an
approaching squall that caused them to watch with some uneasiness for
Worth's return. He had gone out in one of the canoes, an hour before,
for a paddle, and had not since been seen. Just as the storm broke he
appeared around a point and headed towards the little landing-place
near which they were standing. As his course lay directly in the
teeth of the wind, his struggle was long and hard. They watched him
anxiously, and more than once Sumner offered to go to the boy's
assistance; but his uncle said he wished Worth to learn self-reliance
more than anything else, and this was too good a lesson to be spoiled.
Finally the young paddler conquered, and, reaching the landing-place in
safety, sprang ashore. He was either too exhausted or too careless to
properly secure his canoe, and as he stepped from it a spiteful gust of
wind struck it full on the side. In another moment it was beyond reach
and drifting rapidly out to sea.

Both the Mantons were confused by the suddenness of the mishap. Before
they could form any plan for the recovery of the runaway, Sumner had
shoved his own canvas canoe into the water, jumped aboard, and was
dashing away in pursuit of the truant. He was almost within reach of
his prize, and his tiny sail was almost indistinguishable amid the
blackness of the squall, when the watchers on shore were horrified to
see another and much larger sail come rushing down, dead before the
wind, directly towards it. Then the tiny canoe sail disappeared; and
as the larger one seemed to sweep over the spot where it had been, the
Mantons gazed at each other with faces that betokened the dread they
dared not put into words.




CHAPTER III.

SUMNER RECEIVES A SECOND OFFER.


For a few minutes Sumner Rankin's peril was most imminent. He was
almost within reach of the drifting canoe, which he had been watching
too closely to take note of any other object, when he became conscious
of the clumsy, wood-laden schooner rushing down on him before the
squall. She was manned by a crew of two negroes, and by the manner in
which she yawed, heading one moment this way and the next another, he
saw that they had but little control of her movements. In vain did he
shout to them to lookout. His voice was lost in the shriek of the wind,
and they did not hear him. He tried to cross their bows, and might have
succeeded in so doing, but at that moment their main-sail gybed over
with a crash, and the heavy craft, looking as large as a man-of-war in
comparison with his cockle-shell, headed directly for him. With the
next send of the sea the canvas canoe was crushed beneath the ponderous
bows, and blotted from existence as though it had been a drifting leaf.

[Illustration: "WITH THE NEXT SEND OF THE SEA THE CANVAS CANOE WAS
CRUSHED BENEATH THE PONDEROUS BOWS."]

As Sumner saw the black mass towering above him, and before it could
descend, he rose to his feet, and taking a straight header, dived
deep into the angry waters. When he again came to the surface he was
swimming in the foaming wake of the schooner, and drifting down towards
him from the windward was the beautiful cedar canoe which was the cause
of all the trouble, and which he had passed in his effort to save his
own from destruction. A few strokes took him to her, and with a feeling
of devout thankfulness he clutched her gunwale.

Worth Manton, or any other inexperienced canoeman, would have attempted
to climb up over the bow or stern, and, sitting astride the slippery
deck, to work his way into the cockpit. Such an attempt would have been
almost certain to roll the light craft over and fill her with water,
in which case she would become wholly unmanageable. But Sumner knew
better than to do such a thing. He had practised capsizing so often in
his crank canvas canoe that to get into this comparatively broad-beamed
and stable craft was the easiest kind of a performance. Seizing hold of
the coaming directly amidship, he placed his left hand on the side of
the cockpit nearest him, and reaching far over, grasped the other side
with his right. Then kicking in the water behind him until his body
lay nearly flat on its surface, and bearing as much weight as possible
on his right hand, he drew himself squarely across the cockpit, and in
another moment was seated in it, without having shipped a drop of water
over the coaming.

There was no paddle in the canoe, and though she rode the waves like a
cork, she was entirely at the mercy of the wind and tide. Although the
squall was passing, the darkness of night was rapidly shutting out all
familiar objects, and Sumner was on the point of resigning himself to a
night of aimless drifting, with an interesting uncertainty as to when
he should be picked up, when a distant shout, that sounded exceedingly
like his own name, was borne to his ears. He sent back an answering
cry, the shout was repeated, and a few minutes later the shadowy form
of the _Psyche_, with Mr. Manton wielding a double-bladed paddle, shot
out of the darkness.

"I never was so glad to find any one in my life!" exclaimed the
new-comer. "We were afraid that clumsy schooner had run you down. I
tell you what, boy, the last ten minutes have been the most anxious
I ever passed, and I wouldn't go through with them again for all the
canoes in the world. But what has become of your own boat?"

"She has gone to the bottom, like many a good ship before her," replied
Sumner; "and it wasn't the fault of those lubbers on the schooner that
I didn't go with her. Have you an extra paddle with you?"

"No; I neglected to bring one, and I shall have to take you in tow."

They had already drifted down past the fort that commands the harbor
from the south-west point of the island, and as they could not hope to
make their way back against wind and tide, they were compelled to work
in behind it, and make a landing on the south beach a mile or more from
where they started. Here Mr. Manton remained in charge of the canoes,
while Sumner ran home to announce his own safety, obtain a change of
clothing and another paddle.

He found his mother and Worth in a terrible state of anxiety concerning
him; but he made so light of his recent adventure that it was not until
after the canoes were brought safely back, an hour later, that they
learned the full extent of his recent peril.

This incident seemed to cement a firm friendship between Sumner and
the Mantons, and while the former stubbornly refused to accept the
recompense for his lost canoe that Mr. Manton tried to force upon
him, declaring that it was only his own carelessness in not keeping
a sharper lookout, the latter made up his mind that, in spite of his
pride, the boy must and should be rewarded in some way for what he had
done.

The following week was busily and happily spent in making new sails for
the two canoes, rerigging them, and in teaching Worth how to manage
his. It struck Sumner as a little curious that, even after the new
sails were made, Mr. Manton was always too busy to go out on these
practice trips with his nephew, and invariably asked him to take the
_Psyche_ and act as instructor in his place. Of course he could not
refuse to do this, nor did he have the slightest inclination to do
so; for what boy who loved boats would not have jumped at the chance
of sailing that dainty craft? How Sumner did appreciate her speed and
seaworthy qualities! He raced with every sponger and fisherman in the
harbor, and caused their eyes to open with amazement at the ease with
which he beat them. How fond he became of the canoe that bore him to so
many victories! How, with all his heart, he did wish he were going in
her on the cruise up the reef, for which such extensive preparations
were being made! Much as he wished this, however, he was very careful
not to express the wish to any person except his mother, to whom he
always confided all his hopes, fears, and plans. After his refusal
of Mr. Manton's offer to accompany them as guide, he would not for
anything have let that gentleman know how eagerly he longed to have the
offer repeated in such form that his pride would allow him to accept
it. Still, as he had no canoe now, it would be impossible for him to
go, and there was no use in thinking of it.

So he tried to make the most of his present opportunities, and gain all
the pleasure that they held. Nor did he neglect Worth, but instructed
him so thoroughly in the art of canoe-handling, that at the end of a
week the boy was as much at home in his canoe as he had ever been on a
yacht.

One day, as the two beautiful craft, with their perfect setting
lateen-sails, were glancing in and out among the anchored sponge fleet
on the north side of the island, like white-winged sea-birds, a young
sponger, named Rust Norris, called out from one of the boats, "Say,
Sumner, come here a minute, will yer?"

As the latter sailed alongside and asked what he wanted, the sponger
answered: "I want to try that fancy trick of yourn. Let me take her a
few minutes, will yer?"

"No," replied Sumner; "I can't, because she isn't mine to lend.
Besides, as you are not accustomed to this style of craft, you couldn't
sail her, anyhow; and you'd upset before you had gone a length."

"Oh, I would, would I? Well, I'll bet I can sail anything you can, or
any other landlubber that thinks he knows it all because his daddy
belonged to the navy."

Then, as Sumner, with a flushed face, but disdaining any reply,
sheered off and sailed away, he added, "I'd jest naturally hate myself
if I was as mean as you be, Sumner Rankin, and I won't forget your
disobligingness in a hurry, neither!"

In the mean time Mr. Manton had studied Sumner's character carefully,
and the more he did so the more he was pleased with the boy. He found
him to be proud and high-tempered, but also manly, straightforward,
and honest to a fault, as well as prompt to act in emergencies,
self-reliant, and a thorough sailor. In the course of several
conversations with the boy's mother he learned much of Sumner's past
history and of his dreams for the future. To her he finally confided a
plan, formed on the day that Sumner saved Worth's canoe at the expense
of his own, and after some discussion won her assent to it.

It was nothing more nor less than that Sumner should take his place on
the proposed cruise up the reef, and act the part of guide, companion,
and friend to the younger canoeman.

"I shall not for a second time be guilty of the mistake of trying to
hire you to take this cruise," said Mr. Manton, smiling, as he unfolded
this plan to Sumner; "but I ask you to do it as a favor to both me and
Worth. Indeed, it will be a great favor to me," he added, hastily, as
he saw an expression of doubt on the lad's face; "for I really ought
to be in New York at this very minute, attending to some important
business, which I was only willing to neglect in case Worth could not
take this trip without me. Now, however, I am confident that he will be
safer with you than he would be with me alone, and if you will take my
canoe and accompany him to Cape Florida, where I shall try to meet you
about the first of April, you will place me under an obligation. Will
you do it?"




CHAPTER IV.

TEACHING A THIEF A LESSON.


Was there ever such a chance to do the very thing he most longed to do
offered a boy before? Sumner did not believe there ever had been, and
with a quick glance at his mother's smiling face, in which he read her
assent to the plan, he answered:

"I don't know how to thank you, sir, for making me such a splendid
offer, and not only will I gladly accept it, but I promise to do
everything in my power to make Worth have a good time, and see that no
harm befalls him. But I wish you were going too. I hate to think of
taking your place and depriving you of all the pleasure of the trip."

"My dear boy," replied Mr. Manton, "you must not look at it in that
way, for, as I said before, you will be doing me a real favor in taking
my place. I am more of a yachtsman than a canoeman anyway, and I look
forward with fully as much pleasure to cruising down the Indian River
from St. Augustine in the yacht that my brother proposes to charter,
and meeting you at Cape Florida, as I should to running up the reef
in a canoe. There is one more thing, however. I must insist upon your
sailing your own canoe, for I make it a rule never to lend my boats
to any one, and you will have enough responsibility in looking after
Worth, without having the added one of caring for another person's
canoe. So, from this moment, the _Psyche_, and all that she contains,
is yours."

"Oh, Mr. Manton!"

"That will do. Not another word," laughed the young man. "I am as
obstinate as a mule when I have once made up my mind to a thing, and so
there is nothing for you to do but take the canoe, and make the best
use you can of her."

Sumner's protests against this generosity were but feeble ones, and
were quickly disposed of by Mr. Manton, who simply refused to listen to
them. He cut them short by saying, "Now that this matter is settled,
and everything is in readiness for a start, I propose that you get off
in the morning, for I want to take to-morrow night's steamer for Tampa."

That night, after everybody had gone to bed and the house was still,
Sumner lay wide awake, thinking over the good-fortune that had
befallen him. At length he could not resist the temptation of getting
up, partly dressing himself, and slipping out for a look at his canoe,
his very own! the most beautiful craft he had ever seen, and such a one
as in his wildest dreams he had never hoped to possess.

The two canoes had been drawn up on the grass not far from the water's
edge, and covered with some bits of old canvas. Although it was a
moonlit night, the moon was occasionally obscured by drifting clouds,
and when Sumner left the house everything was in shadow from this
cause. He moved very quietly, for he did not wish any one to know
of the weakness that led him to look at something with which he was
already familiar, merely because it had acquired the new interest of
possession.

To his amazement, when he reached the place where the canoes had been
left, he could find but one of them. In vain did he lift the canvas
that had covered them both, and look hurriedly about the little yard.
One of them was certainly gone, and no trace of it remained. As the boy
stood irresolute, wondering what he ought to do, he was startled by a
slight splash in the water. At the same moment the cloud passed from
the face of the moon, and by the light thus afforded Sumner saw the
figure of a man seated in the missing canoe, and cautiously paddling
from the shore.

Without an instant's hesitation he slid the remaining canoe over the
grass and into the water, sprang into it, seized a paddle, and started
in pursuit. Of course the paddler in the first canoe might be one of
the Mantons, but Sumner did not believe it was either of them. He
thought it more than likely that the stranger was some one who only
desired to try the canoe, but it might be a thief. At any rate, the boy
determined to discover who he was, and what he meant by his stealthy
performance before they were many minutes older.

The stranger did not realize that he was pursued until Sumner had
shoved off from shore, and was urging his own craft forward with
vigorous strokes of his double-bladed paddle. When, by a glance over
his shoulder, he discovered this, he redoubled his efforts to escape,
and by his clumsy splashings proved himself a novice in the art of
paddling. Still he made fair headway, and it was not until they were
several hundred yards from shore that Sumner overtook him.

Here was anchored an immense mooring-buoy, with a round, slightly
conical top, having in its centre a great iron ring. It did not rise
more than a foot from the surface of the water, and in trying to watch
Sumner, the occupant of the leading canoe did not notice it until his
light craft struck it a glancing blow, and very nearly upset. The
next instant an effort to recover his equilibrium had precipitated
the fellow into the water, and as Sumner shot past him he was wildly
clutching at the buoy, with desperate efforts to gain its upper surface.

Satisfied that he could not drown so long as he clung to the buoy,
Sumner first picked up the drifting canoe. With it in tow he returned
to the buoy on which the recent fugitive was now sitting, clinging
tightly to the iron ring, and presenting a comical picture of misery.

"Don't leave me here, Sumner!" he cried, in an imploring tone, in which
the boy at once recognized the voice of Rust Morris. "I didn't mean no
harm. I only just wanted to try the trick, and I meant to put her back
again where I found her. Honest I did!"

[Illustration: "HE RETURNED TO THE BUOY, ON WHICH THE RECENT FUGITIVE
WAS NOW SITTING."]

"Well, I don't know," replied Sumner, who could not help laughing at
the other's plight, in spite of his anger at him for taking the canoe
without leave, and his suspicion that it would not have been returned
so promptly as Rust claimed it would. "You look quite as comfortable
as you deserve to be; besides, you will have a nice quiet chance out
here to learn the lesson that it is better to leave other people's
property alone than to take it without permission. So, on the whole, I
think I will leave you where you are for a while. I did think of having
you arrested for stealing, but I guess this will do just as well."

Thus saying, the boy began to paddle towards shore, and at the same
time Rust changed his pleading tone to one of bitter invective,
uttering loud threats of what he would make Sumner suffer in the future.

Without paying any attention to these, the young canoeman continued
on his way to the shore. From there he watched until he saw the dim
form of a fishing-boat come silently drifting down the harbor with the
tide. As she neared the spot where he knew the buoy with its unwilling
occupant to be, he heard shouts, saw the boat alter her course, and
stop for a minute. As she again proceeded, and he was satisfied that
his prisoner had been rescued, Sumner again went to bed, this time to
sleep soundly until morning.

When he related this adventure at breakfast-time, Mr. Manton said he
had served the rascal right; but Mrs. Rankin was fearful lest some
future mischief should come of it. At this Sumner laughed, and said he
thought the lesson would teach Rust Norris to let his things alone in
the future, also that he was not afraid of anything the young sponger
could do anyhow.

The morning was spent in loading the canoes and in making final
preparations for the start. By noon all was in readiness, and after a
hasty lunch the two young canoemates stepped aboard their dainty craft.
Then, amid a waving of handkerchiefs and a chorus of hearty good-byes
from the group of spectators assembled to see them off, they hoisted
sail, and bore away on the first reach of what was to prove one of the
most eventful and exciting cruises ever undertaken up the Florida Reef.

[Illustration: THE "CUPID" AND "PSYCHE" START ON THEIR CRUISE.]




CHAPTER V.

THE GREAT FLORIDA REEF.


The great Florida Reef, up which our young canoemates had just started
on their adventurous cruise, is about 230 miles long. It extends from
Cape Florida, on the Atlantic coast, completely around the southern end
of the peninsula, and far out into the Gulf of Mexico on the west. The
island of Key West lies some 70 miles off the main-land, and about the
same distance from the Dry Tortugas, which group of little coral islets
forms the western extremity of the reef. Between Key West, on which is
a city of the same name containing nearly 20,000 inhabitants, who live
farther south than any one else in the United States, and Cape Florida,
150 miles east and north, a multitude of little keys or islands,
covered to the water's edge with a dense growth of mangroves and other
tropical trees and shrubs, stretch in a continuous line. Between these
keys[A] and the main-land lies a vast shallow expanse of water known
as the Bay of Florida. Outside of them is the narrow and navigable
Hawk Channel, running along their entire length, and bounded on its
seaward side by the almost unbroken wall of the outer reef. This rarely
rises above the surface, and on it the busy coral insects pursue their
ceaseless toil of rock-building. Beyond the reef, between it and the
island of Cuba, eighty miles away, pours the mighty flood of the Gulf
Stream.

[A] The word "key" is a corruption of the Spanish _Cayo_ or island.
Thus Key West was originally "Cayo Hueso," or Bone Island, so called
from the quantity of human bones found on it by the first white
settlers.

For nearly 300 years these peaceful looking keys, with their
bewildering net-work of channels, kept open by the rushing
tide-currents, and coral reefs were the chosen resorts of pirates
and wreckers, both of whom reaped rich rewards from the unfortunate
vessels that fell into their hands. Now the pirates have disappeared,
and the business of the wreckers has been largely taken from them by
the establishment of a range of light-houses along the outer reef,
at intervals of twenty to thirty miles. The first of these is on
Loggerhead Key, the outermost of the Tortugas. Then comes Rebecca
Shoal, half-way between Loggerhead and Sand Key Light, which is just
off Key West. From here the lights in order up the reef are American
Shoal, Sombrero, Alligator, Carysfort, and Fowey Rocks, off Cape
Florida.

With this chain of flashing beacons to warn mariners of the presence
of the dreaded reef, the palmy days of wreckers and beach-combers have
passed away, and they must content themselves with what they can make
out of the occasional vessels that are still drawn in to the reef by
the powerful currents ever setting towards it. Consequently most of
those who would otherwise be wreckers have turned their attention to
sponging in the waters behind the keys, which form one of the great
sponge-fields of the world, or to the raising of pineapples and
cocoanuts on such of the islands as afford sufficient soil for this
purpose.

There are four ways by which one may sail up the reef. The first is
outside in the Gulf Stream, or by "way of the Gulf;" the second is
between the reef and the keys, through the Hawk Channel; the third is
through the narrow and intricate channels among the keys, or "inside,"
as the spongers say; and the fourth is the "bay way," or through the
shoal waters behind the keys.

Of all these, the third, or inside way, was the one chosen by Sumner
as being the most protected from wind and seas, the most picturesque,
the one affording the most frequent opportunities for landing, the most
interesting, and in every way best adapted to canoes drawing but a few
inches of water.

As the _Psyche_ and _Cupid_ are running easily along the north shore
of the key before a light southerly breeze, there is time to take a
look at the "duffle" with which they are laden. In the first place,
each has two lateen-sails, the long yards of which are hoisted on short
masts rising but a few feet from the deck. These sails can be hoisted,
lowered, or quickly reefed by the canoeman from where he sits. The two
halves of the double-bladed paddles are held in metal clips on deck, on
either side of the cockpit. Also on deck, securely fastened, is a small
folding anchor, the light but strong five-fathom cable of which runs
through a ring at the bow, and back to a cleat just inside the forward
end of the coaming.

On the floor of each canoe is folded a small tent made of gay-striped
awning-cloth, and provided with mosquito-nettings at the openings.
Above these are laid the pair of heavy Mackinaw blankets and the rubber
poncho that each carries. These, which will be shelter and bedding at
night, answer for seats while sailing.

Under the deck, at one side of each cockpit, hangs a double-barrelled
shot-gun; and on the other side are half a dozen tiny lockers, in
which are stowed a few simple medicines, fishing tackle, matches,
an alcohol lamp (Flamme force), loaded shells for the guns, etc. In
the after-stowage lockers are extra clothing and toilet articles.
The _Psyche_ carries the mess-chest, containing a limited supply of
table-ware, sugar, coffee, tea, baking-powder, salt, pepper, etc.,
and a light axe, both of which are stowed at the forward end of the
cockpit. The _Cupid_ carries in the same place a two-gallon water-keg
and a small, but well-furnished tool chest. The provisions, of which
bacon, flour, oatmeal, sea-biscuit, a few cans of baked beans and brown
bread, dried apples, syrup, cocoa, condensed milk, corn-meal, rice, and
hominy form the staples, and the few necessary cooking utensils, which
are made to fit within one another, are evenly divided between the
two canoes and stowed under the forward hatches. By Sumner's advice,
many things that the Mantons brought with them have been left behind,
and everything taken along has been reduced to its smallest possible
compass. Besides the shot-gun that Mr. Manton had given him as part of
the _Psyche's_ outfit, Sumner was armed with a revolver that had been
his father's.

Late in the afternoon they passed the eastern point of the island of
Key West, and crossing a broad open space, in the shoal waters of
which, but for Sumner's intimate knowledge of the place, even their
light canoes would have run aground a dozen times, they approached the
cocoanut groves of Boca Chica, a large key on which they proposed to
make their first camp.

The western sky was in a glory of flame as they hauled their craft
ashore, and from the tinted waters myriads of fish were leaping in all
directions, as though intoxicated by the splendor of the scene.

"We will catch some of those fine fellows a little later," said Sumner,
as they began to unload their canoes and carry the things to the spot
they had already chosen for a camp.

"But it will be dark," protested Worth.

"So much the better. It's ever so much easier to catch fish in the dark
than by daylight."

There was plenty of drift-wood on the beach, and in a few minutes the
merry blaze of their camp-fire was leaping from a pile of it. While
waiting for it to burn down to a bed of coals, each of them drove a
couple of stout stakes, and pitched their canoe tents near a clump of
tall palms, just back of the fire, looped up the side openings, and
spread their blankets beneath them.

"Now let's fly round and get supper," cried Sumner, "for I am as hungry
as a kingfish. You put the coffee water on to boil, while I cut some
slices of bacon, Worth, and then I'll scramble some eggs, too, for we
might as well eat them while they are fresh."

With his back turned to the fire, the former did not notice what Worth
was doing, until a hissing sound, accompanied by a cry of dismay,
caused him to look round.

"I never saw such a miserable kettle as that!" exclaimed Worth. "Just
look; it has fallen all to pieces."

For a moment Sumner could not imagine what had caused such a
catastrophe. Then he exclaimed: "I do believe you must have set the
kettle on the coals before you put the water into it."

"Of course I did," answered Worth, "so as to let it get hot. And the
minute I began to pour water into it, it went all to pieces."

"Experience comes high," said Sumner, "especially when it costs us the
loss of our best kettle; but we've got to have it at any price, and I
don't believe you'll ever set a kettle on the fire again without first
putting water or some other liquid inside of it."

"No, I don't believe I will," answered Worth, ruefully, "if that is
what happens."

In spite of this mishap, the supper was successfully cooked, thanks to
Sumner's culinary knowledge, and by the time it was over and the dishes
had been washed, he pronounced it dark enough to go fishing. First he
cut a quantity of slivers from a piece of pitch-pine drift-wood, then,
having emptied one of the canoes of its contents, he invited Worth to
enter it with him.

"But we haven't a single fish-line ready," protested Worth.

"Oh yes, we have," laughed Sumner, lighting one end of the bundle of
pine slivers, and giving it to Worth to hold. "You just sit still and
hold that. You'll find out what sort of a fish-line it is in a minute."
Then he paddled the canoe very gently a few rods off shore, at the same
time bearing down on one gunwale until it was even with the surface of
the water. "Look out, here they come!" he shouted.

[Illustration: TORCH-FISHING FOR MULLET.]




CHAPTER VI.

PINEAPPLES AND SPONGES.


The next instant Worth uttered a startled cry and very nearly dropped
his torch, as a mullet, leaping from the water, struck him on the side
of the head, and fell flapping into the canoe.

"Never mind a little thing like that," cried Sumner. "Hold your torch a
trifle lower. That's the kind!"

Now the mullet came thick and fast, attracted to the bright light like
moths to a candle-flame. They leaped into the canoe and over it, they
fell on its decks and flopped off into the water, they struck the
two boys until they felt as though they were being pelted with wet
snowballs; and at length one of them, hitting the torch, knocked it
from Worth's hand, so that it fell hissing into the water.

The effect of this sudden extinguishing of the light was startling. In
an instant the fish ceased to jump, and disappeared, while the recent
noisy confusion was succeeded by an intense stillness, only broken
by an occasional flap from one of the victims to curiosity that had
fallen into the canoe.

"Well, that is the easiest way of fishing I ever heard of," remarked
Worth, as they stepped ashore, and turning the canoe over, spilled out
fifty or more fine mullet. A dozen of them were cleaned, rubbed with
salt, and put away for breakfast. Then the tired canoemates turned in
for their first night's sleep in camp.

Sumner's eyes were quickly closed, but Worth found his surroundings so
novel that for a long time he lay dreamily awake watching the play of
moonlight on the rippling water, listening to the splash of jumping
fish, the music of little waves on the shell-strewn beach, and the
ceaseless rustle of the great palm leaves above him. At length his
wakefulness merged into dreams, and when he next opened his eyes it was
broad daylight, the sun had just risen, and Sumner was building a fire.

"Hurrah, Worth! Tumble out of bed and tumble into the water," he called
at that moment. "There's just time for a dip in the briny before this
fire'll be ready for those fish." Suiting his actions to his words, he
began pulling off his clothes, and a minute later the two boys were
diving into the cool water like a couple of frisky young porpoises.

Oatmeal and syrup, fresh mullet, bread-and-butter (which they had
brought from home), and coffee, formed a breakfast that Sumner declared
fit for a railroad king.

The sun was not more than an hour high before they were again under
way, this time working hard at their paddles, as the breeze had not yet
sprung up. Having left their first camp behind them, they felt that
their long cruise had indeed begun in earnest.

For the next three days they threaded their way, under sail or paddle,
among such numberless keys and through such a maze of narrow channels,
that it seemed to Worth as though they were entangled in a labyrinth
from which they would never be able to extricate themselves. Whenever
a long sand-spit or reef shot out from the north side of one key, a
similar obstruction was certain to be found on the south end of the
next one. Thus their course was a perpetual zigzag, and a fair wind
on one stretch would be dead ahead on the next. Now they slid through
channels so narrow that the dense mangroves on either side brushed
their decks, and then they would be confronted by a coral reef that
seemed to extend unbrokenly in both directions as far as the eye could
reach. Worth would make up his mind that there was nothing to do but
get out and drag the canoes over it, when suddenly the _Psyche_, which
was always in the lead, would dash directly at the obstacle, and skim
through one of the narrow cuts with which all these reefs abound.

For a long time it was a mystery to Worth how Sumner always kept in
the channel without hesitating or stopping to take soundings. Finally
he discovered that it was by carefully noting the color of the water.
He learned that white water meant shoals, that of a reddish tinge
indicated sand-bars or reefs, black water showed rocks or grassy
patches, and that the channels assumed varying shades of green,
according to their depth.

They camped with negro charcoal-burners on one key, and visited an
extensive pineapple patch on another. Having heard this fruit spoken of
as growing on trees, Worth was amazed to find it borne on plants with
long prickly leaves that reached but little above his knees. The plants
stood so close together, and their leaves were so interlaced, that he
did not see how any one ever walked among them to cut the single fruit
borne at the head of each one; and when he tried it, stepping high to
avoid the bayonet-like leaves, his wonder that any human being could
traverse the patch was redoubled.

"I would just as soon try to walk through a field covered with cactus
plants," he said.

"So would I," laughed Sumner, "if I had to walk as you do. In a
pineapple patch you must never lift your feet, but always shuffle
along. In that way you force the prickly leaves before you, and move
with their grain instead of against it."

Although the crop would not be ready for cutting much before May, they
found here and there a lusciously ripe yellow "pine," and after eating
one of these, Worth declared that he had never before known what a
pineapple was. He did not wonder that they tasted so different here
and in New York, when he learned that for shipment north they must be
cut at least two weeks before they are ripe, while they are hard and
comparatively juiceless.

At the end of three days an outgoing tide, rushing like a mill-race,
swept the canoes through the green expanse of "The Grasses," that
looked like a vast submerged meadow, and into the open waters of the
Bahia Honda, or, as the reef-men say, the "Bay o' Hundy." Here they
first saw spongers at work, and devoted an entire day to studying their
operations.

Worth had always supposed that sponges were dived for, but now he
learned his mistake. He found that in those waters they are torn from
the bottom and drawn to the surface by iron rakes with long curved
teeth attached to slender handles from twenty to thirty feet in length.
The sponging craft are small sloops or schooners, each of which tows
from two to six boats behind it. When a sponge bed is discovered, two
men go out in each of these boats. One of them sculls it gently along,
while the other leans over the gunwale with a water-glass in his hands,
and carefully examines the bottom as he is moved slowly over it. The
water-glass is a common wooden bucket having a glass bottom. This is
held over the side of the boat so that its bottom is a few inches
below the surface of the water, or beyond the disturbing influence of
ripples. With his head in this bucket, the sponger gazes intently down
until he sees the round black object that he wants. Then he calls out
to the sculler to stop the boat, and with the long-handled rake that
lies by his side secures the prize. It is black and slimy, and full of
animal matter that quickly dies, and decomposes with a most disgusting
odor. To this the spongers become so accustomed that they do not mind
it in the least, and fail to understand why all strangers take such
pains to sail to windward of their boats.

When the deck of a sponge boat is piled high with this unsavory spoil
of the sea, she is headed towards the nearest key on which her crew
have established a crawl, [B] and her cargo is tossed into it. The
crawl is a square pen of stakes built in the shallow water of some
sheltered bay, and in it the sponges lie until their animal matter
is so decomposed that it will readily separate from them. Then they
are stirred with poles or trodden by the feet of the spongers until
they are free from it, when they are taken from the crawl, and spread
on a beach to dry and whiten in the sun. When a full cargo has been
obtained, they are strung in bunches, and taken to Key West to be
sold by the pound at auction. There they are trimmed, bleached again,
pressed into bales, and finally shipped to New York.

[B] Crawl is a corruption of corral, meaning a yard or pen.

Sponges are of many grades, of which the sheep's wool is the finest,
and the great loggerheads the most worthless. As spongers can only work
in water that is smooth, or nearly so, half their time is spent in
idleness; and though they receive large prices for what they catch, the
average of their wages is low.

One hot afternoon at the end of a week found our canoemates half-way
up the reef, and approaching a key called Lignum Vitae, which is for
several reasons one of the most remarkable of all the keys. It is a
large island lifted higher above the surface of the water than any of
the other keys, and it contains in its centre a small fresh-water lake.
It is covered with an almost impenetrable forest growth, and concealed
by this are ancient stone walls, of which no one knows the origin or
date.

Sumner had told Worth so much concerning this key as to arouse his
curiosity, and they both looked forward with interest to reaching it.
All day they had seen it looming before them, and when they finally
dropped sail close beside it, Worth proposed that they take advantage
of the remaining daylight to make a short exploration before unloading
their canoes and pitching camp. To this Sumner agreed, and as they
could not drag the laden boats up over the rocky beach, they decided
to anchor them out and wade ashore. So the _Psyche's_ anchor was flung
out into the channel, the _Cupid_ was made fast to her, and a light
line from its stern was carried ashore and tied to a tree. Then, taking
their guns with them, the boys plunged into the forest.

When, an hour later, they returned from their exploration, bringing
with them a brace of ducks and half a dozen doves that they had shot,
they gazed about them in bewildered dismay. The canoes were not where
they had left them, nor could any trace of them be discovered.

[Illustration: "THE CANOES ARE GONE!"]




CHAPTER VII.

MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF THE CANOES.


"The canoes are gone!" cried Worth.

"It looks like it," replied Sumner, in an equally dismayed tone.

"Are you sure this is where we left them?"

"Yes; sure. There is the stern line that we made fast to the _Cupid_,
or what is left of it."

Sure enough, there was a portion of the light line still fast to the
tree, and as Sumner pulled it in, both boys bent over to examine it. It
had been broken, and not cut. From its length it must also have been
broken close to the canoe.

"Oh, Sumner, what shall we do?" asked Worth, in a tone of such despair
that the former at once realized the necessity of some immediate action
to divert his comrade's thoughts.

"Do?" he cried. "There's plenty to do. First, we'll go down to that
point and take a look to seaward; for, as the tide is running out,
they are more likely to have gone in that direction than any other. It
would be a comfort even to catch a glimpse of them. Then, perhaps, they
have only drifted away, and are stranded on some bar near by. Besides
looking for the canoes, we must build some kind of a shelter for the
night, cook supper, and discuss our plans for the future. Oh yes, we've
plenty to do!"

While he spoke, the boys were making their way to the point in
question, and when they reached it, they eagerly scanned every foot of
water in sight. Diagonally to the right from where they stood stretched
the long reach of Lower Metacumba, desolate and uninhabited as they
knew. Almost directly in front, but several miles away, rose the
palm-crowned rocks of Indian Key, with its two or three old shed-like
buildings in plain view. These had been used and abandoned years
before by the builders of Alligator Light, the slender tower of which
they could see rising from the distant waters above the outer reef.
Diagonally on the left was the tiny green form of Tea Table Key, and
dimly beyond it they could make out the coast of Upper Metacumba, which
Sumner said was inhabited. In all this far-reaching view, however,
there were no signs of the missing canoes.

"I'm glad of it!" said Sumner, after his long searching gaze had failed
to reveal them. "It would be rough to have them in sight but out of
reach."

Already the sun was sinking behind the tree-tops of Lower Metacumba,
fish were leaping in the placid waters, and a few pelican were soaring
with steady poise above them. Every now and then these would swoop
swiftly down, with a heavy splash that generally sealed the fate of
one or more mullet off which the great birds were making their evening
meal. A flock of black cormorants, uttering harsh cries, flew overhead
with a rushing sound, returning from a day's fishing to their roosts
in the distant Everglades. With these exceptions, and the faint boom
of the surf on the outer reef, all was silence and desertion. Besides
the light-house tower there was no sign of human life, not even the
distant glimmer of a sail. While the boys still looked longingly for
some trace of their canoes, the sunset, and a red flash, followed at
short intervals by two white ones, shot out from the vanishing form of
Alligator Light.

"Come!" cried Sumner, heedful of this warning. "Night is almost here,
and we have too much to do in every precious minute of twilight to be
standing idle. I'll take the bucket and run to the pond for water,
while you cut all the palmetto leaves you possibly can, and carry them
to the place where we landed."

"The bucket?" repeated Worth, looking about him inquiringly. "Where
are you going to find it?"

Without answering, Sumner sprang down the rocks to the water's edge,
where he had noticed a stranded bamboo, and quickly cut out a short
section of it with the hatchet that he had thrust into his belt before
leaving the canoes. As he made the cuts just below two of the joints,
his section was a hollow cylinder, open at one end, but having a tight
bottom and capable of holding several quarts of water. With this he
plunged into the forest in the direction of the pond, handing Worth the
hatchet as he passed, and bidding him be spry with his palmetto leaves.

A few minutes later, as Sumner emerged from the trees, carrying his
full water-bucket, and breathless with his haste, he indistinctly saw
the form of some animal at the very place where they had left their
guns and birds. As the boy dashed forward, uttering a loud cry, the
alarmed animal scuttled off into the bushes.

"Oh, you vil-li-an!" gasped Sumner as he reached the place, "I'll
settle with you to-morrow, see if I don't."

Four of the doves had disappeared, and the head was torn from one of
the ducks.

"What is it?" cried Worth, in alarm, as he entered the clearing from
the opposite side, staggering beneath an immense load of cabbage-palm
leaves.

"A rascally thieving 'coon," answered Sumner, "and he has got away with
the best part of our provisions, too; but I'll get even with him yet.
Now give me the hatchet, and then pick up all the drift-wood you can
find, while I build a house."

Worth would gladly have helped erect the house, as Sumner called it,
for he was very curious as to what sort of a structure could be built
of leaves, but he realized the necessity of doing as he was bidden, and
at once set to work gathering wood. Sumner, after carefully propping
his water-bucket between two rocks, so as to insure the safety of its
contents, began cutting a number of slender saplings, and turning them
into poles. The stoutest of these he bound with withes to two trees
that stood about six feet apart. He fastened it to their trunks as high
as he could reach. Then he bound one end of the longer poles to it,
allowing them to slant to the ground behind. Crosswise of these, and
about a foot apart, he tied a number of still more slender poles, and
over these laid the broad leaves. He would have tied these securely in
place if he had had time. As he had not, for it was quite dark before
he finished even this rude shelter, he was forced to leave them so, and
hope that a wind would not arise during the night. For himself alone
he would not have built any shelter, but would have found a comfortable
resting-place under a tree. Knowing, however, that Worth had never in
his life slept without a roof of some kind above him, he thought it
best to provide one, and thereby relieve their situation of a portion
of the terror with which the city-bred boy was inclined to regard it.

It was curious and interesting to note how a sense of responsibility,
and the care of one younger and much more helpless than himself, was
developing Sumner's character. Already the selfishness to which he was
inclined had very nearly disappeared, while almost every thought was
for the comfort and happiness of his companion. Worth, accustomed to
being cared for and having every wish gratified, hardly appreciated
this as yet; but the emergencies of their situation were teaching him
valuable lessons of prompt obedience and self-reliance that he could
have gained in no other way.

As Sumner finished his rude lean-to, and placed the guns within its
shelter for protection from the heavy night dews, Worth came up from
the beach with his last load of drift-wood. It was now completely dark,
and the notes of chuck-wills-widows were mingling with the "whoo,
whoo, whoo ah-h!" of a great hoot owl in the forest behind them.

"Now for a fire and some supper," cried Sumner, cheerily. "You've got
some matches, haven't you?"

"I don't believe I have," replied Worth, anxiously feeling in his
pockets. "I thought you must have some."

"No, I haven't a sign of one!" exclaimed Sumner, and an accent of
hopelessness was for the first time allowed to enter his voice. "They
are all aboard the canoes, and without a fire we are in a pretty pickle
sure enough. I wonder how hungry we'll get before we make up our minds
to eat raw duck? This is worse than losing the canoes. I declare I
don't know what to do."

"Couldn't we somehow make a fire with a gun? Seems to me I have read of
something of that kind," suggested Worth.

"Of course we can!" shouted Sumner, springing to his feet. "What a gump
I was not to think of it! If we collect a lot of dry stuff and shoot
into it, there is bound to be a spark or two that we can capture and
coax into a flame."

So, with infinite pains, they felt around in the dark until they had
collected a considerable pile of dry leaves, sticks, and other rubbish
that they imagined would easily take fire. Then, throwing a loaded
shell into a barrel of his gun, and placing the muzzle close to the
collected kindlings, Sumner pulled the trigger. There was a blinding
flash, a loud report that rolled far and wide through the heavy night
air, and the heap of rubbish was blown into space. Not a leaf remained
to show where it had been, and not the faintest spark relieved the
darkness that instantly shut in more dense than ever.

"One cartridge spent in buying experience," remarked Sumner, as soon
as he discovered the attempt to be a failure. "Now we'll try another.
If you will kindly collect another pile of kindling, I'll prepare some
fireworks on a different plan."

Thus saying, he spread his handkerchief on the ground, cut off the
crimping of another shell with his pocket-knife, carefully extracted
the shot and half the powder, and confined the remainder in the bottom
of the shell with one of the wads. Then he moistened the powder that he
had taken out, and rubbed it thoroughly into the handkerchief, which
he placed in the second pile of sticks and leaves that Worth had by
this time gathered. A shot taken at this with the lightly charged blank
cartridge produced the desired effect. Five minutes later the cheerful
blaze of a crackling fire illumined the scene, and banished a cloud of
anxiety from the minds of the young castaways.




CHAPTER VIII.

LIFE ON THE LONELY ISLAND.


The influence of a brisk wood-fire on a dark night is remarkable.
Not only does it give freely of its heat and light, but gloom and
despair are banished by its ruddy glow, while cheerfulness and hope
spring forward as if by magic to occupy their vacant places. At least,
this was the effect of the cheery blaze our canoemates had at length
succeeded in coaxing into life, and though it had cost them two of
their half-dozen cartridges, they felt that these had been well
expended. Their prospects had looked dismal enough when they had been
compelled to contemplate an existence without a fire; but with it to
aid them, they felt equal to almost any emergency, and they turned to
the preparing of their ducks for supper with renewed energy. Surely
fire is well worthy of being classed with air and water as one of the
things most necessary to human life and happiness.

Now that they had time to think of it, the boys were very hungry, for
since an early breakfast they had eaten but a light lunch of crackers
and jam. So they barely waited to assure themselves that their fire
was going to burn, before the feathers from their ducks were flying in
all directions. When the birds were plucked and cleaned, two sharpened
sticks were thrust through their bodies. These were rested on one
rock, with another above them to hold them in place, so that the ducks
were lifted but a few inches above a great bed of glowing coals. Then
the hungry lads sat down to watch them, and never, to their impatient
belief, had two fowls taken so long to roast before. They began testing
their condition by sticking the points of their knives into them
long before there was a chance of their being done. At length Sumner
declared that he was going to eat his even if it were still raw, and
the half-cooked ducks were placed on two broad palm leaves that served
at once as tables and plates.

"My! but isn't this fowl tough!" exclaimed Worth, as he struggled with
his share of the feast. "Sole-leather and rubber are nothing to it."

"Yes," replied Sumner; "ten-ounce army duck would be easier eating than
this fellow. I wish we could have stewed them with rice, a few bits of
pork, a slice or two of onion, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. How
do you think that would go?"

"Please don't mention such things," said Worth, working at a drumstick
with teeth and both hands.

"Ducks ought always to be parboiled before roasting," remarked Sumner,
wisely.

"I believe this fellow would be like eggs," replied Worth; "the more
you boiled him the harder he would get."

However, hunger and young teeth can accomplish wonders, so it was not
very long before two little heaps of cleanly-picked bones marked all
that was left of the ducks, and though they could easily have eaten
more, the boys wisely decided to reserve the doves for breakfast.

Although the darkness rendered it a difficult task, Sumner managed to
cut a few armfuls more of palmetto leaves. These, shredded from their
heavy stalks and spread thickly over the floor of the lean-to, made a
couch decidedly more comfortable than a bed on the bare ground would
have been.

They could do nothing more that night, and lying there in the firelight
they had the first opportunity since discovering the loss of their
canoes to thoroughly discuss the situation.

"What would our mothers say if they could see us now, and know the fix
we are in?" queried Worth, after a meditative silence.

"I'm awfully glad they can't know anything about it," replied Sumner.

"But I wish some one could know, so that they could send a boat for us.
I am sure that we don't want to stay on this island for the rest of our
lives."

"Of course not, and I don't propose to, even if no boat comes here."

"What do you propose to do?" inquired Worth, leaning on his elbow, and
gazing at his companion with eager interest.

"Well, in the first place, I propose to explore this key thoroughly
to-morrow, and see if any traces of the canoes are to be found, as well
as what it will afford in the way of food and lumber. Then, if we don't
find the canoes, and no boat comes along, I propose to build some kind
of a raft, on which we can float over to Indian Key. While boats rarely
pass this way, some are certain to pass within a short distance of it
almost every day. So from there we would have little difficulty in
getting taken off."

"Well," said Worth, regarding his companion admiringly, "I'm sure I
couldn't build a raft with only a hatchet, and I'm awfully glad that
I'm not here all alone. What can possibly have become of our canoes,
anyway?"

"I'm sure I can't imagine," replied Sumner, "unless some one stole
them, and I don't know of any one on the reef mean enough to do that.
Besides, we haven't seen a sail all day, nor a sign of a human being.
They couldn't have gone adrift, either--at least, I don't see how they
could. So, on the whole, it's a conundrum that I give up. You'd better
believe that I feel badly enough, though, over losing _Psyche_. That
worries me a great deal more than how we are going to get away from
here, for I never expect to own another such beauty as she is. But
there's no use crying over what can't be helped, so let's go to sleep,
and prepare for a fresh start to-morrow. Whenever you wake during the
night you want to get up and throw a fresh stick on the fire, and I
will do the same, for we can't afford to let it go out."

"All right," said Worth. "But, Sumner, there aren't any wild beasts or
snakes on this key, are there?"

"I don't believe there are any snakes," was the reply, "while there
certainly aren't any animals larger than 'coons, and they won't hurt
any one. No, indeed, there is nothing to be afraid of here, and you may
be as free from anxiety on that score as though you were in your own
room in New York City. More so," he added, with a laugh; "for there
you might have burglars, while here there is no chance of them. I only
wish there was; for burglars in this part of the country would have to
come in boats, and we might persuade them to take us off the key. Now
go to sleep, old man, and pleasant dreams to you."

"Good-night," answered Worth, and closing his eyes, the boy made a
resolute effort to sleep. Somehow he found it harder to do so now
than it had been on his first night of camping out. The loss of the
canoes seemed to have removed an element of safety on which he had
depended, and to have suddenly placed him at an infinite distance
beyond civilization, with all its protections. It was so awful to be
imprisoned on this lonely isle, in those far-away southern seas. He
wondered what his father and mother and Uncle Tracy were doing, and
if there was a dance at the Ponce de Leon that night, and what his
school-fellows in New York would say if they knew of his situation.
He wondered and thought of these and a thousand other things, until
finally he, too, fell asleep, and the silence of the lonely little camp
was unbroken save by the voice of the great hoot owl, who called at
regular intervals, "Whoo, whoo, whoo-ah!"

It still wanted an hour or so of moonrise, when the waning firelight
half disclosed a human figure that emerged from the woods behind the
lean-to, and stealthily crouched in the black shadow beside it. For
some moments it remained motionless, listening to the regular breathing
of the boys. Then it moved noiselessly forward on hands and knees.

Suddenly Worth awoke, and sprang into a sitting posture. At the same
time he uttered a startled cry, at the sound of which the creeping
figure drew quickly back, and disappeared behind the trunk of a tree.

"What is it?" asked Sumner, who, awakened by Worth's cry, was also
sitting up.

"I don't know," answered the boy, "but I am almost certain that some
one was trying to pull my gun away."




CHAPTER IX.

THE NOCTURNAL VISITOR.


For a full minute the boys sat motionless, listening intently for
any sound that should betray the presence of the intruder who, Worth
was positive, had visited their camp. Once they both heard a slight
rustling in the bushes behind them, and Worth, putting his hand on
Sumner's arm, whispered, breathlessly,

"There!--hear that?"

"That's nothing," answered Sumner. "Probably that 'coon has come back
to look for the rest of his supper."

"But a 'coon wouldn't pull at a gun," insisted Worth.

"Oh, you must have been dreaming," returned Sumner. "Your gun hasn't
disappeared, has it?"

[Illustration: "SOME ONE WAS TRYING TO PULL MY GUN AWAY."]

"No, but I am sure I felt it move. I threw my arm across it before I
went to sleep, and its moving woke me. I felt it move once after I was
awake, as though some one were trying to pull it away very gently. Then
I sat up and called out, 'Who's there?' but there wasn't any answer,
and I didn't hear a sound. But, Sumner, there's some one on this island
besides ourselves, I know there is, and he'll kill us if he gets the
chance. Can't we get away somehow--can't we? I shall die of fright if
we have to stay here any longer!"

"Yes, of course we can," answered Sumner, soothingly, "and we'll set
about it as soon as daylight comes. Until then we'll keep a sharp
lookout, though I can't believe there is a human being on the key
besides ourselves. We surely would have seen some traces of him."

As the boy finished speaking he went outside and threw some more
wood on the fire. In another minute a bright blaze had driven back
the shadows from a wide circle about the little hut, and rendered
it impossible for any one to approach without discovery. Then the
canoemates sat with their precious guns in their hands, and talked in
low tones until the moon rose above the trees behind them, flooding the
whole scene with a light almost as bright as that of day.

By this time Worth's conversation began to grow unintelligible; his
head sank lower and lower, until at length he slipped down from his
sitting position fast asleep. Then Sumner thought he might as well
lie down, and in another minute he, too, was in the land of dreams.
Worth was very restless, and occasionally talked in his sleep, which is
probably the reason why the dark form still crouching in the shadows
behind the camp did not again venture to approach it.

It was broad daylight, and the sun was an hour high, when the boys
next awoke, wondering whether their fright of the night before had
been a reality or only a dream. Under the fear-dispelling influence of
the sunlight even Worth was inclined to think it might have been the
latter, while Sumner was sure of it.

After replenishing their fire, they went down to the beach in the
hope of seeing a sail, and for their morning plunge in the clear
water. There was nothing in sight; but while they were bathing, Sumner
discovered a fine bunch of oysters. These, roasted in their shells,
together with the birds saved from the evening before, made quite a
satisfactory breakfast. After eating it, and carefully banking their
fire with earth, they set forth to explore the island.

As they were most anxious to search for traces of the lost canoes,
and had already penetrated the interior as far as the central pond
of fresh-water, they decided to follow the coast-line as closely as
possible. Accordingly, with their loaded guns over their shoulders,
they set out along the water's edge. Their progress was slow, for
in many places the mangroves were so thick that they found great
difficulty in forcing a way through them. Then, too, they found a
quantity of planks, many of which they hauled up, as well as they
could, beyond the reach of the tide for future use. While thus engaged,
the meridian sun and their appetites indicated the hour of noon before
they reached a small grove of cocoanut-trees on the north end of the
island, beneath which they decided to rest.

Sumner climbed one of the tall, smooth trunks, and cutting off a great
bunch of nuts, in all stages of ripeness, let it fall to the ground
with a crash. As he was about to descend, his eye was arrested by
something that instantly occupied his earnest attention. It was only
the stem of another bunch of nuts; but it had been cut, and that so
recently that drops of fresh sap were still oozing from it. From his
elevated perch he could also see where other bunches had been cut
from trees near by, and he slid to the ground in a very reflective
frame of mind. He could not bear, however, to arouse Worth's fears by
communicating his suspicions until he had reduced them to a certainty.
The nuts might have been taken by some passing sponger, though he did
not believe they had been.

So he said nothing of his discovery while they lunched off of
cocoanuts, ripe and partially so, and took refreshing draughts of their
milk. He did, however, keep a sharp lookout, and finally spied what
resembled a dim trail leading through the bushes behind them towards
the interior.

Finally, on the pretext that he might get a shot at some doves, and
asking Worth to remain where he was for a few minutes, Sumner entered
the bushes, determined to discover the mystery, if that trail would
lead him to it. He had not gone more than a hundred yards when his foot
was caught by a low vine, and he plunged head first into a thick ty-ti
bush. He fell with a great crash, and made such a noise in extricating
himself from the thorny embrace that he did not hear a quick rush and a
rustling of the undergrowth but a short distance from him. What he did
hear, though, a minute after he regained his footing, was a startled
cry, and the roar of Worth's gun. Then came a succession of yells,
mingled with cries of murder, and such shouts for help, coupled with
his own name, that for a moment he was paralyzed with bewilderment and
a sickening fear. Then he bounded back down the dim trail, just in time
to see Worth throw down his gun and rush towards the struggling figure
of a negro. The latter was rolling on the ground at the foot of a
cocoanut-tree, and uttering the most piercing yells.

[Illustration: "THE LATTER WAS ROLLING ON THE GROUND AT THE FOOT OF A
COCOANUT-TREE."]

As Worth became aware of Sumner's presence, he turned with a white,
frightened face, exclaiming: "Oh, Sumner, what shall I do? I've killed
him, and he is dying before my very eyes! Of course I didn't mean to,
but he came on me so suddenly that I fired before I had time to think.
The whole charge must have gone right through his body, judging from
the agony he is in. What shall I do? Oh, what shall I do?"

"Well, he isn't dead yet, at all events," said Sumner. "Perhaps, if
he will keep still for a minute and stop his yelling, we can find out
where he is hurt and do something for him."

With this he attempted to catch hold of the struggling figure at his
feet; but the negro rolled away from him, crying:

"Don't tech me, Marse Summer! Don't yo' tech me! I's shot full o'
holes, an' I's gwine ter die. Oh Lordy! Oh Lordy! Sich pain as I's
a-suff'rin'! An' I didn't kill nobody, nuther. I didn't nebber do no
harm. An' now I's full ob holes. Oh Lordy! Oh Lordy!"

"Why, it's Quorum!" exclaimed Sumner, mentioning the name of one of
the best cooks known to the Key West sponging fleet. Sumner had sailed
with him, and knew him well. About a month before, the captain of the
schooner on which he was employed had been found dead in his bunk.
Quorum was accused of poisoning him for the sake of a sum of money that
the captain was known to have had, but which could not now be found.
The cook had been arrested, and an attempt was made to lynch him for
the alleged crime. He had, however, succeeded in escaping, and had
disappeared from the island. That no active search was made for him was
because the money was found concealed in the captain's bunk, and it was
proved that heart-disease was the cause of his death.

At length the negro, exhausted by his struggles, lay still, though
groaning so heavily that Worth imagined him to be dying, and Sumner,
bending over him, searched for the fatal wound. His face became more
and more perplexed as the examination proceeded, until finally, in a
vastly relieved tone, he exclaimed:

"You good-for-nothing old rascal! What do you mean by frightening us
so? There isn't a scratch anywhere about you. Come, get up and explain
yourself."

"Don't yo' trifle wif a ole man what's dyin', Marse Summer," said
Quorum, interrupting his groans and sitting up.

"You are no more dying than I am," laughed Sumner, who was only too
glad to be able to laugh after his recent anxiety. "I don't know what
Worth, here, fired at, or what he hit; but it was certainly not you."

"Didn't I, really?" cried Worth. "Oh, I'm so glad! I don't know what
possessed me to fire, anyhow; but when he came dashing out of the woods
right towards me, my gun seemed to go off of its own accord."

"Yo' say I hain't hit nowheres, Marse Summer?" asked the negro,
doubtfully; "an' not eben hurted?"

"No," laughed Sumner, "not even 'hurted.' You know, Quorum, that I
wouldn't hurt you for anything. I like your corn fritters and conch
soup too much for that."

"Why for yo' a-huntin' de ole man, den?"

"Hunting you? We're not hunting you. What put such an idea into your
head?"

"Kase ebberbody er huntin' him, an' er tryin' ter kill him for de
murder what he nebber done."

"Of course you didn't do it. Captain Rube died of heart-disease.
Everybody knows that now."

"What yo' say?" cried the negro, springing to his feet, his face
radiant with joy. "He die ob he own sef, an' ebberybody know hit, an'
dey hain't er huntin' ole Quor'm any mo'? Glory be to de Lawd! Glory be
to de Lawd! an' bress yo' honey face, Marse Summer, for de good news!
De pore ole niggah been scare' 'mos' to def ebber sence he skip up de
reef in a ole leaky skiff, what done got wrack on dis yer key. Now he
free man, he hole he head up an' go cookin' agin. Bress de Lawd! Bress
de Lawd!"




CHAPTER X.

WHOSE ARE THEY? AND WHERE DID THEY COME FROM?


"Look here," said Sumner, sternly, to the negro, after his excitement
had somewhat subsided, "didn't you try to steal one of our guns last
night?"

"Yes, honey, I's afeared I did," confessed the black man, humbly. "But
I didn't know hit war you, Marse Summer, an' I did want er gun so
powerful bad."

"I'm glad that mystery is cleared up, at any rate," said Worth, with a
relieved air. "And I'm glad to find out that I was right about some one
being in the camp, too. Now I wonder if he doesn't know something about
our canoes?"

"Do you, Quorum, know anything about the canoes that we came here in?"
asked Sumner.

"No, I don't know nuffin' 'bout no cooner. I's bin wonderin' what sort
of er boat you'll come in, an' er lookin' fer him, but I don't see him
nowhere."

"I suppose you would have stolen it if you had found it?"

"Maybe so, maybe so. Ole Quor'm not 'sponsible fer what him do when he
bein' hunted like er 'possum or er 'coon. Yo' like 'possum when he
roasted, Marse Summer?"

"Indeed I do when you roast him, Quorum. Why? Have you got one?"

"Yes sah, cotch him in er trap dis berry mawnin'. I jist settin' hit
agin when yo' come er trompin' troo de trees an' scare de pore ole
niggah 'mos' to def. Now, if yo' say so, we go roas' him, and hab berry
fine suppah."

"Certainly I say so. You lead the way, and we'll follow you. I tell you
what, Worth, we've struck it rich in falling in with one of the best
cooks on the reef."

"I don't know how I shall like 'possum," replied Worth, "for I have
never eaten any; but I am sure it will make fully as good a meal as raw
cocoanut. I do wish, though, that we had some bread, or at least some
crackers, and a little butter."

"And sugar and coffee and bacon, and a cooking outfit," laughed Sumner.
"I wouldn't mind spending a few days here if we had all those things."

"Wouldn't it be fine?" replied the boy, who had all his life revelled
in luxuries that he hardly cared for, but would now have appreciated
so highly the commonest of what are generally regarded as necessities.

As they talked in this strain, they followed the negro through the
narrow trail leading back from the cocoanut grove to his camp. It was
but a short distance from the place where Sumner had taken his header
into the ty-ti bush. Here Quorum had built himself a snug palmetto hut
in a place capitally concealed from observation, and had managed to
surround himself with a number of rude comforts. A fire was smouldering
in a rough stone fireplace, and from an adjoining limb hung the 'possum
that they were to have for supper.

"Well," exclaimed Sumner, looking about him, "I don't see but what you
are living like an African King, Quorum. Have you had plenty to eat
since you came here?"

"Yes, sah. Plenty such as hit is--'possum, 'coon, turtle, fish, oyster,
conch, cocoanut, banana, limes, lemons, an' paw-paw; but no terbakker.
I tell yo', sah, dat a berry pore place what hab no terbakker."

"So you want tobacco to make you happy, and Worth wants bread and
butter, and I want coffee. It seems that we all want something that we
haven't got, and aren't likely to get in this world, doesn't it? But,
Quorum, what on earth are you throwing all that iron into the fire
for? It won't burn."

"No, him won't burn," answered the negro, chuckling at the idea, "but
him good to bile de wattah."

As neither of the boys had the least idea what he meant, they watched
him curiously. The iron that he had thrown into the fire, which he
now heaped with wood, consisted of a number of old bolts that he had
obtained from some wreckage on the beach. While these were heating, he
filled a small hollow place in the rocks with water, and when the bolts
were red-hot he dropped them into it. In about two seconds the water
was boiling. Throwing a few handfuls of ashes into the boiling water,
he soused the 'possum in it and held him there several minutes. After
this he scraped the animal with a bit of iron hoop, and to the surprise
of the boys, its hair came off almost without an effort. In a minute
it was as bare as a suckling pig, which it greatly resembled. Shortly
afterwards it was cleaned, washed, and ready for roasting.

Just here Sumner proposed that they return to their own camp, and do
the roasting there, as from where they now were they had no chance of
seeing any boats that might pass the island. As Quorum no longer felt
the necessity for hiding, he readily agreed to this, and carrying with
them the few articles belonging to him that were worth removing, they
started through the woods towards what the boys already called home.

The afternoon was nearly spent when they entered the clearing and came
in sight of their own little lean-to. Sumner, who was some distance in
the lead, was the first to reach it. The others saw him suddenly stop,
gaze at the hut as though fascinated by something inside of it, and
then, without a word, start on a run towards the beach.

This curious action excited Worth's wonder; but when he reached the hut
he did exactly the same thing. When Quorum, who came last, reached it,
he gazed in open-eyed wonder, but did not move from the spot. A smile
gradually overspread his face, and, with a long-drawn sigh of happy
anticipation, he uttered the single word, "Terbakker."

"Do you see it?" asked Worth, breathlessly, as he joined Sumner on the
beach.

"No; but perhaps it is behind the point. Let's go and take a look."

But when they reached the point there was no sign of the vessel that
they fully expected to find there. More greatly puzzled than they
had ever been before in all their lives, even at the mysterious
disappearance of their canoes, the boys slowly retraced their steps
towards the hut. It was completely filled with barrels, boxes, and
various packages, most of which evidently contained provisions.

"There is a sack of coffee," remarked Sumner.

"And a box of crackers. And, yes, here is butter!" cried Worth, lifting
the cover of a tin pail.

"Dat ar am sholy a box ob terbakker," put in Quorum, pointing to the
unmistakable box, from which his eyes had not wandered since they first
lit upon it.

"It certainly is," replied Sumner, in a voice expressive of the most
unbounded amazement. "And there, if my eyes do not deceive me, are
cases of milk, canned fruit, baked beans, and brown bread."

"Hams and bacon," added Worth.

"Kittles and pans," said Quorum.

"In fact," concluded Sumner, "there is a bountiful supply of provisions
for several months, and a complete house-keeping outfit into the
bargain. There is no doubt as to what these things are. The only
unanswered questions are, Whom do they belong to, and how did they get
here?"

[Illustration: A GREAT DISCOVERY.]

"Perhaps whoever stole our canoes has left them here in part payment,"
suggested Worth.

"You might just as well say that Elijah's ravens had brought them,"
laughed Sumner.

"Marse Summer, sah, 'scuse me, but do hit 'pear to yo' like hit would
be stealin' to bang de kiver offen dat ar box, an' let de ole man hab
jes one smell ob dat terbakker?" asked Quorum, humbly.

"No, Quorum, under the circumstances I don't believe it would," replied
the boy, who forthwith proceeded to attack the box in question with his
hatchet.




CHAPTER XI.

SUMNER DRIFTS AWAY ON A RAFT.


The display of layer upon layer of black plug tobacco such as Quorum
had been accustomed to using for longer than he could remember caused
the negro's eyes to glisten as though they saw so many ingots of pure
gold. For more than two weeks he had longed unavailingly for a fragment
of the precious weed. Now to have an unlimited quantity of it placed
before him so very mysteriously and unexpectedly seemed to him the
climax of everything most desirable and best worth living for. He
sniffed at it eagerly, inhaling its fragrance with long, deep breaths.
Then, producing a stubby black pipe from some hidden recess of his
tattered clothing, he asked, pleadingly, for "jes one lilly smoke."

"After supper," said Sumner. "Get supper ready first, and then you
shall smoke as much as you want to."

At this Quorum's countenance fell, and seating himself on the ground,
he remarked, stubbornly: "No, sah. Ole Quor'm do no cookin' wifout
him hab a smoke fust. No smoke, no cookin', no cookin', no suppah. Why
yo' no gib one plug ob terbakker fur dat 'possum, eh? Him monstrous
fine 'possum, but I willin' to sell him fur jes one lilly plug ob
terbakker. Yo' can't buy him so cheap nowhar else, specially on dis yer
oncibilized Niggly Wity Key."

"But it is not my tobacco," laughed Sumner, greatly amused at the old
man's attitude and arguments.

"Who he b'long to, den?" demanded Quorum, quickly.

"I'm sure I don't know," answered the boy.

"Den he yourn. You fin' him. You keep him. Hit all de same like er
wrack. Yo' catch him, nobody else want him, yo' keep him. Jes one lilly
smoke, Marse Summer--jes one; den de ole man go to cookin' de berry
bestes yo' ebber seen. Come, Marse Summer, jes one; dat's a honey-bug."

There was no resisting this pleading appeal, and cutting off enough
for a single pipeful from one of the plugs, Sumner handed it to the
negro, saying: "Well, then, if you must have it, take that, and hurry
up with supper the very minute you have finished your smoke. I never
was so hungry in my life, while Worth begins to look dangerously like a
cannibal. Come, Worth, we must fly round, and build another palmetto
shanty before dark. At this rate we'll have a town here before long."

Two hours of hard work found a second hut, much more pretentious than
the first, nicely roofed in. By this time the sun was setting, and
what was of infinitely more importance to the young canoemates, Quorum
announced that supper was ready. And what a feast he had prepared! Had
there ever been one half so good before? In the opinion, of the boys,
there certainly had not.

Quorum had felt no scruples about helping himself to the provisions so
liberally provided, and if the boys had noticed what he was doing, they
had not possessed the moral courage to interfere. As a result, he had
baked the 'possum stuffed with cracker-crumbs, bits of pork and onions
cut up fine, and well seasoned with salt and pepper, in a Dutch-oven.
The oven had been set on a bed of coals, and a fire of light-wood knots
built on its heavy iron lid. The 'possum had been surrounded with
sweet-potatoes, and both were done to a brown crisp. Then there was
coffee, with sugar and condensed milk, toasted hardtack with butter,
and bananas for dessert.

"Talk about eating!" said Sumner.

"Or Delmonico's!" added Worth.

As Quorum sat and watched them, a broad grin of happiness overspread
his features, while wreaths of blue smoke curled gently upward above
his woolly head. His pipe was again full, and he now had possession of
an entire plug of tobacco, for which he felt profoundly grateful to
some unknown benefactor.

Among other things in the hut, which the boys now called the
storehouse, they had discovered a bale of blankets. These they did not
hesitate to appropriate to their own use, and as they lay stretched
on them, under their new roof, blinking sleepily at the fire, their
comfort and happiness seemed almost to have attained perfection.

"Except for our canoes," said Sumner. "If we only had them, I, for
one, should be perfectly happy; and to-morrow I am going to make
preparations for finding them."

"How?" asked Worth; and for an hour or so they talked over their plans
for the future. The intervals between their remarks became longer and
longer, until finally, when Worth asked, "Whom do you suppose all those
provisions belong to, anyway, Sumner?" the latter answered: "Give it
up. I'm too sleepy to guess any more riddles to-night."

The boys slept almost without moving until sunrise; but Quorum was
frequently aroused to repel the invasions of certain 'coons that, but
for his watchfulness, would have made free with the contents of the
storehouse. He also had to protect the fire against a heavy shower that
came on towards morning; and on each of these occasions he rewarded
himself with a few whiffs of smoke from his black pipe.

The next morning the two boys, leaving Quorum to devise traps for the
capture of the 'coons and prepare dinner, started out to collect some
of the planks they had seen the day before. With these Sumner proposed
to build a raft on which they could drift over to Indian Key with
that afternoon's ebb-tide. Once there, he anticipated no difficulty
in hailing some passing craft that could be chartered to search for
their canoes, and carry them back to Key West in case the search proved
fruitless.

[Illustration: QUORUM IS HAPPY.]

As the channel from Lignum Vitae, through which the strongest
tide-currents flowed, led directly past Indian Key and close to it,
this plan seemed feasible. By noon the boys had towed around to the
cove in front of their camp two heavy squared timbers and a number of
boards. These they lashed together in the form of a rude raft. They
had no nails, and but a limited supply of line for lashing, so that
the raft was by no means so strong as they could wish. Neither was
it very buoyant, the material of which it was built being yellow pine,
already somewhat water-soaked and floating very low. To their dismay,
when it was completed, the boys found that instead of supporting three
persons, as they hoped it would, it was awash and unsafe with but two
of them on board.

"There's only one thing to be done," said Sumner, when this state of
affairs became evident, "and that is for me to go alone. When I get
hold of a craft of some kind, I can bring her here after you two; and
if I don't find one, it will be an easy matter for me to come back on a
flood-tide."

"But, Sumner, it seems awful for you to go 'way off there alone on such
a crazy raft at this. Do you think it is absolutely necessary?"

"Yes," answered the other, whose mind was now intent only upon
recovering his beautiful canoe, "I do think it is necessary for one
of us to go. We can't stay here forever, living off of some unknown
person's provisions. Besides, supposing those canoes should be wrecked
and discovered in that condition, and the report that we were lost
should reach Key West, how do you think our mothers would feel? Yes,
indeed, it is necessary that I should go, and I mean to start the
minute the tide serves."

Neither Worth nor Quorum could move Sumner from this determination,
and it was with heavy hearts that they watched him, about four o'clock
in the afternoon, step aboard the raft and shove out into the current,
that had just begun to run ebb. He was provided with a long pole and a
small box of provisions, the latter being placed in the middle of the
raft.

Its movement was at first heavy and sluggish, but as soon as it felt
the influence of the current, it was borne along with comparative
speed. Thus a few minutes served to take the solitary voyager beyond
earshot of his companions. For some time he could see them waving their
hats, but at length their forms faded from his sight, and he realized
that he was beyond reach of their assistance in case his undertaking
should fail. Now that he could no longer note the speed with which he
had left the island, his progress seemed irritatingly slow.

The channel was very crooked, and his clumsy craft frequently grounded
on the projecting sand-bars at its many turns. In each case valuable
time was lost in pushing it off and getting it again started. From this
cause his rate of progress was so slow that Indian Key was still some
distance ahead when the sun sank from sight in the western waters. Now,
for the first time, Sumner experienced a feeling of uneasiness, and a
doubt as to the success of his venture. He strove to add to the speed
of his raft by poling, but as the depth of water was generally too
great for him to touch bottom, nothing could be accomplished in that
way.

Now he began to notice the numbers of sea-monsters that were going out
with the tide and using his channel as their pathway to deeper waters.
On all sides were to be seen the triangular fins of huge sharks rising
above the surface so close to him that he could have touched them with
his pole. He also saw hundreds of sawfish, stingarees, devil-fish with
vampire-like wings, the vast bulks of ungainly jew-fish, porpoises, and
other evil-looking creatures of great size and phenomenal activity.
He shuddered to think what would be his fate if a slip or a mis-step
should precipitate him into the water among them. At length their forms
were hidden from him by the darkness, and only their splashings and
the gleaming trails of their progress through the phosphorescent water
denoted their swarming presence.

Suddenly, while his attention was fixed upon these, he became aware
that he was abreast of Indian Key and passing it. There was a shoal on
the opposite side, and plunging his pole into it, he made a mighty
effort to direct his raft towards land. All at once, without the
slightest warning, the brittle pole snapped, and only by a violent
effort did he save himself from plunging into the cruel waters.




CHAPTER XII.

PICKED UP IN THE GULF STREAM.


The snapping of that pole marked the bitterest moment of Sumner
Rankin's life. With it went his only hope of navigating his rude craft
to the friendly shore of the key, past which he now seemed to be
drifting with terrible rapidity. He could make out the dim forms of its
trees, and of the deserted buildings, in one of which he had proposed
to spend the night. He could even hear the rustle of its palm leaves in
the light evening breeze, and the gentle plash of waters on its rocky
coast. It was so near that he could easily have swum to it. He thought
of making the attempt, but a single glance at the phosphorescent
flashes beneath him convinced him of its hopelessness. No, it was safer
to remain where he was, even though he should be carried out to sea
through one of the numerous channels in the outer reef. Supposing his
raft should strand on the reef, what chance was there of its holding
together until daylight, or even for a few minutes? He knew that if a
sea should arise there was none.

Now Indian Key was lost to sight behind him, and he was alone, with
only his own unhappy thoughts for company. He knew that those waters
were seldom traversed by vessels of any description in the night-time,
most of the reef sailors preferring to come to anchor at sunset. Above
him shone the stars, and far ahead gleamed the white and red flashes of
Alligator Light. All else was darkness and utter desolation.

The poor lad sat on the box containing his slender store of provisions,
and buried his face in his hands. How thankful he was that his mother
could not see him now! She was at least spared that sorrow. He wondered
what she was doing. Then his thoughts turned to those whom he had left
but a few hours before. Why had he not been content to stay with them,
and await patiently the relief that must come to them sooner or later?
Perhaps even now the mysterious owner of those goods had arrived, and
Worth was sitting with a merry party beside the fire, while old Quorum
was preparing supper. No, they must have already eaten supper, and now
Quorum was blissfully smoking his pipe, while Worth was comfortably
stretched out on his bed of blankets. Oh, what a fool he had been to
let a false pride in his own strength and ability get the better of his
prudence! He might have known that there were a hundred chances of
being swept past the little rocky key to one of successfully landing on
it. He had known it, but his obstinate pride in his own superior skill
had not allowed him to acknowledge it, and now it was too late.

At length, feeling faint from hunger, the poor boy roused himself, and
ate a few mouthfuls of food from his provision chest. As he contrasted
this meal and its surroundings with the merry supper of the evening
before, the wretchedness of his situation was forced upon him more
strongly than ever. By this time a breeze that caused little waves to
break upon and occasionally wash completely over the raft had sprung
up in the south-west, and by the changing position of Alligator Light,
Sumner became aware that he was drifting up the reef. The steadily
increasing roar of its breakers informed him at the same time that he
was approaching closer to it with each moment.

Finally he was abreast of the light, and a mile or so from it, while
the sound of the breakers was all about him. He was on the line of
the reef. In a few minutes more he would either have passed into the
open sea beyond it, or his ill-built raft would strand and be broken
to pieces on its cruel rocks. During the succeeding five minutes he
almost held his breath. The strain of the suspense was awful, and the
boy hardly knew which fate he dreaded the most. At the end of that
time it was decided. The sound of the breakers certainly came from
behind him. He had passed out through some channel, and was now on the
open sea. At the same time the waves that washed over his raft were
larger, so that before long he was thoroughly drenched by them, and sat
shivering in the chill night wind. Now the strong current of the Gulf
Stream aided the wind to bear him up the reef, and after a few hours
the brightness of Alligator Light was so sensibly diminished that he
knew he must be several miles from it.

Once during the night he saw the light of a steamship passing at no
great distance from him; but his frantic cries for help were either
unheard or unheeded, for no attention was paid to them. Then he began
to pray for the daylight that seemed as though it would never come. How
wearily the hours dragged and how cold he was! He was wet through, and
chilled to the bone.

When at length the welcome dawn began to tinge the eastern sky, it
found the lad half-lying on the raft, clinging to the lashings of the
little provision chest, and lost to consciousness in the sleep of
utter exhaustion. In this condition he was discovered by the keen-eyed
lookout of a west-bound steamer that was hugging the reef to escape as
much as might be the force of the Gulf Stream. With reversed engines
and slackening speed, the great ship passed within a hundred yards of
him, but he knew nothing of it.

Nor did he awake until he heard a gruff, but pitying voice close beside
him, saying, "Poor fellow, he must be dead!" The next moment two pairs
of powerful arms had dragged him into the boat that had been lowered
for him, and as he sat up in its bottom rubbing his eyes, he seemed
to have just awakened from a hideous nightmare. A few minutes later
the boat with its crew had been hoisted to the deck, the steamer was
again pursuing her way towards Key West, and Sumner, wrapped in hot
blankets, was occupying a berth in a vacant stateroom, surrounded by
the sympathizing faces of those who were anxious to anticipate his
every want.

He was sound asleep when, half an hour from that time, the steamer
neared Alligator Light, and a small boat was seen pulling off from it
so as to intercept her. At the sight of this boat the first officer
immediately began to collect such late papers and magazines as the
passengers were willing to contribute, and tying them into a package.
This he lashed to a bit of wood, which he intended to toss overboard
for the light-keeper to pick up. In this way the reef lights are
kept supplied with New York papers only three or four days old. The
same papers, passing through the mails, do not reach the scattered
dwellers on the keys for ten days or two weeks from the date of their
publication.

As the steamer neared the boat from Alligator Light its occupant was
seen to hold up a small package wrapped in canvas, which was at once
understood to contain despatches that he wished to send to Key West.
So the end of a light line was flung to him, he skilfully made the
package fast to it without delaying the ship a moment, and it was
hauled aboard. Among the letters that it contained was one directed to
the editor of the only daily paper in Key West, and this was delivered
promptly on the steamer's arrival at that port.

[Illustration: "TWO PAIRS OF POWERFUL ARMS DRAGGED HIM INTO THE BOAT."]

Late that afternoon, when Mrs. Rankin was slowly regaining her
composure after the shock of Sumner's sudden and unlooked-for
appearance at home, and was listening with breathless interest to an
account of his recent adventures, a copy of the evening paper was left
at the house. Sumner was too busy assuring his mother that he was
not suffering the slightest ill effect from his exposure of the night
before, to look at it then. When, an hour later, he found time to do
so, the leading item on the first page at once attracted his attention.
It was headed, "A Mystery of the Reef," and after glancing hastily
through it, the boy sprang to his feet, shouting:

"Hurrah, mother! The disappearance of the canoes is explained at last,
and they are safe and sound, after all."




CHAPTER XIII.

A MYSTERY OF THE REEF.


As Mrs. Rankin came into the room, on hearing Sumner's exclamation, he
read aloud the article in the daily _Equator_ that had so excited him,
and which was as follows:

 "A MYSTERY OF THE REEF.

 "By the steamship _Comal_, which arrived in this port to-day, we
 receive a curious bit of news from Keeper Spencer, of Alligator
 Light. On the evening of the 15th, as he was in the lantern of the
 tower preparing to light the lamp, he noticed two small craft of
 a most unusual description rapidly approaching from the direction
 of the keys. One appeared to be in tow of the other, but in
 neither could a human being be discovered. There were no signs of
 oars, sails, paddles, or steam, and yet the movement of the boats
 through the water was at the rate of about ten knots an hour. It
 was also very erratic, and though their general course was towards
 the reef, they approached it by a series of zigzags, now taking
 a sharp sheer to port, and directly another to starboard. As the
 keeper could not leave the tower at that moment, he directed
 Assistant Albury to take the light-house skiff, intercept the
 craft, if possible, and investigate their character.

 "With great difficulty, and after an exciting chase, Mr. Albury
 succeeded in getting alongside the leading boat of the two,
 and in making fast to it. It proved to be a decked canoe, of
 exquisite workmanship and fittings, completely equipped for
 cruising, bearing the name _Psyche_ in silver letters on either
 bow. The second canoe, which was a counterpart of the first, was
 named _Cupid_. Both were in tow of an immense Jew-fish, which
 had succeeded in entangling itself in the cable with which the
 _Psyche_ had evidently been anchored. It is probable that one of
 the flukes of the anchor caught in the creature's gills, though
 just how it happened will never be known, as Mr. Albury, being
 unable to capture the monster, was obliged to cut the cable and
 let him go. Nothing is known as to the fate of the owners of these
 canoes, and they are now at the light-house awaiting a claimant.

 "Just as we go to press we learn that early this morning the
 _Comal_ picked up a young man drifting in the Gulf, not far
 from Alligator Light. We were unable to obtain his name in time
 for insertion in to-day's paper, but will give it, with full
 particulars concerning him, in to-morrow's issue. He may be able
 to throw some light on the mystery of the canoes."

"I should rather think he could!" laughed Sumner, as he finished
reading. "But did you ever hear of such a thing, mother? The idea of
a rascally Jew-fish running off with our canoes! I never thought of
such a thing as that happening. And how wonderfully it has all turned
out! I should have looked everywhere for them rather than at Alligator
Light. I should never have dared attempt to navigate the raft that far,
either. To think, too, that I should have been picked up by the very
steamer that brought the news! How dreadfully you would have felt on
reading it, if I hadn't got here first! Wouldn't you, mother dear?"

"Indeed I should, my boy; and I shall never be able to express my
gratitude for your wonderful preservation."

"But poor Worth!" exclaimed Sumner. "How I wish he knew all about it,
and how awfully anxious he must be! I only hope he won't attempt to
go to Indian Key to look for me before I can get back there. That's
something I must see about at once, and I must take the very first boat
that goes up the reef. Just think how I should feel if anything were to
happen to him, when Mr. Manton placed him in my care, too! If it wasn't
for the way things have turned out, I should feel guilty at having left
him there. I wouldn't have done it, though, if Quorum hadn't been on
hand to look after him. He surely will keep him out of harm's way until
I can get back."

"I hate to think of your going back there again," said Mrs. Rankin,
with a sigh, "though of course it is your duty to do so. But you will
be careful, and not run into any more such dreadful perils, won't you,
dear?"

"Yes, mother; I promise not to run into a single peril that I can help,
and if I meet one, I will try my best to get out of its way," laughed
the boy, whose high spirits had quickly returned with the prospect of
recovering his beloved canoe.

"Well," sighed Mrs. Rankin, "so long as you must go, I shouldn't be
surprised if Lieutenant Carey would take you in the _Transit_. I
believe he intends to leave to-morrow morning for a trip up the reef,
and to make some kind of a survey in the Everglades. He has been
staying here for a few days, and is up in his room now."

"Oh, mother!" cried the boy, springing to his feet, "the Everglades!
How I should love to go!"

"Now, Sumner--" began Mrs. Rankin, in a tone of expostulation; but the
boy had already left the room, and was on his way up-stairs.

Lieutenant Carey was an old friend, who had served under Commander
Rankin, and had known Sumner ever since the boy was twelve years old.
He had heard of his unexpected return, and only waited until the first
interview between the young canoeman and his mother should be ended
before going down to greet him. Now he listened to Sumner's story with
the deepest interest, and when it was ended, he said:

"Of course I will take you up the reef as far as Alligator, my boy,
and shall be glad of your company. I only wish you would go with us as
far as the main-land, and act as pilot through the Keys. They are not
charted, you know, and as I have never been through them, I was on the
point of engaging a fellow named Rust Norris as pilot, but I'd much
rather have you. What do you say? Can't I enlist you in Uncle Sam's
service for a week or so?"

"I should like nothing better," answered Sumner, "only, you see, I am
bound just now to look after Worth Manton, and take him up the reef to
Cape Florida, where we are due by the first of April."

"Perhaps we can persuade him to go along too. It won't be much out of
your way, and you've lots of time to finish your trip between now and
the first of April. I'll risk it anyhow, for I don't like the looks of
that fellow Norris, and am only too glad of an excuse for not engaging
him."

"Then there is Quorum, the cook," added Sumner, reflectively. "I wonder
what will become of him?"

"A cook, do you say? What sort of a cook? A good one?"

"One of the best on the reef," replied Sumner.

"Then he is just the man I want to get hold of for our trip. I am only
waiting now for a cook, and should start this evening if I had found
one to suit me. If you will guarantee him, we'll get away at once, and
make the old _Transit_ hum up the reef in the hope of capturing him
before he makes any other engagement."

"There is not much chance for him to make an engagement where he is
now," laughed Sumner. "And, at any rate, I'm sure he wouldn't leave
Worth until I get back. I shall be only too glad to start to-night
though, for poor Worth must be terribly anxious, and the sooner I get
to him the better."

Thus it was settled, and as soon as supper was over, after a loving,
lingering farewell from his mother, who repeated over and over again
her charges that he should shun all perilous adventures, the boy found
himself once more afloat. Mrs. Rankin had promised to write a long
letter to the Mantons that very evening, assuring them of Worth's
safety up to the date of the day before, and being thus relieved from
this duty, Sumner set forth, with a light heart on his second cruise up
the reef.

The _Transit_ was a comfortable, schooner-rigged sharpie, about sixty
feet long, built by the Government for the use of the Coast Survey
in shallow southern waters. She had great breadth of beam, and was a
stanch sea-boat, though she drew but eighteen inches of water, and
Lieutenant Carey had no hesitation in putting her outside for a night
run up the Hawk Channel.

The especial duty now to be undertaken was an exploration of the
Everglades to ascertain their value as a permanent reservation for
the Florida Seminoles. These Indians, hemmed in on all sides by white
settlers, were being gradually driven from one field and hunting-ground
after another. In consequence they were becoming restive, and the
necessity of doing something in the way of assuring them a permanent
location had for some time been apparent. Thus a survey of the 'Glades
was finally ordered, and Lieutenant Carey had been detailed for the
duty, with permission to make up such a party to accompany him as he
saw fit.

His present command on the _Transit_ consisted of Ensign Sloe, and six
men forward. It was intended that three of these should be taken into
the 'Glades, while Mr. Sloe, with the other three, was to take the
sharpie, from the point where the exploring party left her, around to
Cape Florida, and there await their arrival.

On the deck of the schooner and towing behind her were three novel
craft, in which Lieutenant Carey intended to conduct his explorations
of the swamps and grassy waterways of the interior. One of these was
an open bass-wood canoe built in Canada, shaped very much like a birch
bark, and capable of carrying four men. The others were the odd-looking
boats, with bottoms shaped like table-spoons, that are so popular
as ducking-boats on the New Jersey coast, and are known as Barnegat
cruisers. One of these was named _Terrapin_ and the other _Gopher_,
while the open canoe bore the Seminole name of _Hul-la-lah_ (the wind).

Before a brisk southerly breeze, in spite of the boats dragging behind
her, the _Transit_ made rapid progress. Ere it was time to turn in, Key
West Light was low in the water astern, while that on American Shoal
shone steady and bright off the starboard bow. The wind held fresh all
night, so that by morning both American Shoal and Sombrero had been
passed, and the sharpie was off the western end of Lower Metacumba,
with Alligator Light flashing out its last gleam in the light of the
rising sun.




CHAPTER XIV.

WORTH AND QUORUM ARE MISSING.


As Sumner was anxious to reach Lignum Vitae by the shortest possible
route, the _Transit_ was headed in through the channel between Lower
Metacumba and Long keys. Both tide and wind being with her, the
nimble-footed sharpie seemed to fly past the low reefs and sand-spits
on either side. Now she skimmed by the feeding-grounds of flocks of
gray pelicans, whose wise expressions and bald heads gave them the
appearance of groups of old men, and then passed an old sponge crawl,
or the worm-eaten hull of some ancient wreck, both of which were
covered with countless numbers of cormorants, gannets, and gulls.
Waiting, with outstretched necks and pinions half spread, until the
schooner was within a stone's-throw, these would fly with discordant
cries of anger, wheel in great circles, and return to the places from
which they had been driven the moment the threatened danger had passed.

Even after the sharpie was well inside the bay, and the island they
sought was in sight, they could not lay a direct course towards it on
account of a reef several miles in length that presented an effectual
barrier to anything larger than a canoe. But one narrow channel cut
through it, and this was away to the northward, close under a tiny
mangrove key. Towards this then they steered, with Sumner at the
tiller, for he was the only one on board familiar with the intricate
navigation of those waters.

"You are certain that you are right, Sumner?" inquired Lieutenant
Carey, anxiously, as they seemed about to drive headlong on the bar,
and an ominous wake of muddy water showed that they were dragging
bottom.

"Certain," answered the boy, quietly.

"All right, then; I've nothing to say."

Inch by inch the great centre-board rose in its trunk, and the slack of
its pennant was taken in, as the water rapidly shoaled. Now she dragged
so heavily that it seemed as though she were about to stop. Again the
lieutenant looked at Sumner, and then cast a significant glance at
the man stationed by the fore-sheet. But the boy never hesitated nor
betrayed the least nervousness. An instant later the tiller was jammed
hard over, there was a sharp order of "Trim in!" and, flying almost
into the teeth of the wind, the light vessel shot through an opening
so narrow that she scraped bottom on both sides, and in another moment
was dashing through deep water on the opposite side of the bar.

From here the run to Lignum Vitae was a long and short leg beat, with
numerous shoals to be avoided. In spite of being kept busy with these,
Sumner found time to note and wonder at a great column of smoke that
rose from the island. What could Worth and Quorum be about? It looked
as though they had managed to set the forest on fire. Filled with an
uneasy apprehension, he jumped into a boat the moment the _Transit's_
anchor was dropped in the well-remembered cove, and sculled himself
ashore. To his amazement he heard the sound of many voices, and
discovered a dozen or so of men hard at work apparently cutting down
the forest and burning it.

As he stepped ashore, and looked in vain for the familiar figures
of his friends, a pleasant-faced young man advanced from where the
laborers were at work to meet him.

"Can you tell me, sir, what has become of a boy named Worth Manton and
an old colored man whom I left here the day before yesterday?" Sumner
inquired, anxiously.

"If you mean the two whom I found camped here, and helping themselves
to my provisions, I think I can," answered the young man, with a smile.
"They went over to Indian Key last evening on the boat that brought me
here yesterday. They were very anxious concerning the fate of a friend
who left them the evening before, and went over there on a raft, I
believe they said. Can it be that you are the person they are seeking?"

"Yes, sir, I am."

"Then you are Sumner Rankin, and I am very happy to meet you. My name
is Haines. I have bought this key, and am clearing it, preparatory
to having it planted with cocoanuts. The provisions and camp outfit
that appeared here so mysteriously to you and your companions belong
to me, and were left here by the mail-schooner on her way up the
reef. I expected to arrive, with my men, about the same time, but was
detained. I am very glad, however, that they came in time to relieve
your distress. I am also much obliged to you for affording them a
shelter from the rain, without which some of the things would have been
injured. Now will you pardon my curiosity if I ask how you happen to
arrive here in a schooner from that direction when your friends said
you had gone the other way, and were confident of finding you on Indian
Key?"

[Illustration: AS HE STEPPED ASHORE A PLEASANT-FACED YOUNG MAN ADVANCED
TO MEET HIM.]

When Sumner had given a brief outline of his recent adventure, Mr.
Haines said: "You certainly have had a most remarkable experience, and
I am glad your friends did not know of it, for young Manton was worried
enough about you as it was. However, you will soon rejoin them, and
when you have recovered your canoes, if you feel so inclined, I should
be pleased to have you return here as my guests for as long as you
choose to stay."

Sumner thanked him, and said he should be happy to stop there on his
return from the main-land. Then, begging to be excused, as he was
impatient to go in search of his comrades, he jumped into his boat and
returned to the _Transit_.

Lieutenant Carey was perfectly willing to proceed at once to Indian
Key, but the tide was still running flood, and the breeze, which was
each moment becoming lighter, was dead ahead for a run out through
the channel. Under the circumstances, it would be useless to lift the
anchor, and the impatient boy was forced to wait for the tide to turn.
When it finally began to run ebb, the breeze had died out so entirely
that there was not even the faintest ripple on the water, and another
season of waiting was unavoidable.

By the lieutenant's invitation Mr. Haines came off and dined with
them. He proved a most charming companion, and laughed heartily at
Sumner's description of the amazement with which he, Worth, and Quorum
had discovered the mysterious godsend of provisions. Mr. Haines
declared that it was one of the best jokes he had ever known; though
he was in doubt as to whether it was on him or on them. He appreciated
Sumner's impatience to be off, and when, late in the afternoon, a fair
breeze sprang up, he made haste to take his leave that their departure
might not be delayed.

It was nearly sunset when the _Transit_ approached Indian Key so
closely that objects the size of a man could be distinguished on
it. Sumner was again at the helm, and he tried not to neglect his
steering; but he could not keep his eyes from scanning anxiously every
discernible foot of its surface. To his great disappointment not a soul
appeared.

"They may be on the other side, keeping a lookout for passing vessels,"
suggested Lieutenant Carey.

Hoping that this might be the case, but still heavy-hearted and
anxious, Sumner went ashore, accompanied by the lieutenant. For an hour
they searched over every foot of the key, and through its deserted
buildings, shouting as they went, but their search was in vain.
Nothing was seen of the lost ones, nor had they left a trace to show
that they had ever been on the island.

"It's no use," said Sumner at length; "they evidently are not here,
and must have gone on in the boat that brought them when they failed
to find me. Now, I don't know of anything to do but to go out to the
light-house after the canoes, and then come back here and wait. If
Worth has gone on up the reef, he must pass here on his way back, while
if he has gone the other way, he will hear of me at Key West and come
back here again. I'm awfully sorry that I can't go with you to the
main-land, but I don't see how I possibly can under the circumstances."

Although the boy tried to speak cheerfully, and to take the brightest
possible view of the disappearance of his young comrade, he was filled
with anxiety, and it was with a heavy heart that he turned into his
berth on board the schooner _Transit_ that night.




CHAPTER XV.

WORTH AND QUORUM IN SEARCH OF SUMNER.


On the evening that Sumner left Worth and Quorum, and started on his
adventurous voyage towards Indian Key, they watched him until distance
and the approaching twilight hid him from their view. Quorum was the
first to turn away and begin preparations for supper, while Worth
still remained on the point straining his eyes towards the key, on
which he fondly hoped that his friend was safely landed. At length
it, too, disappeared in the gathering darkness, and he reluctantly
turned his steps towards the camp. He was heavy-hearted, and had but
little appetite for the bountiful supper that Quorum had so skilfully
prepared. Noticing this, the old man tried to cheer him, saying:

"Don't yo' be so down in de mouf, Marse Worf. Dey hain't no 'casion fur
worriment. I know Marse Summer Rankin fur a long time, an' I nebber
know him in a fix yit what he don't slip outen, de same as er eel. I
see him git in er plenty scrapes, but I don't see him git stuck. Him
all right, and yo' no need to go er frettin' an' er mo'nin'. He be
back ter-morrer bright an' smilin'. Now eat your suppah, honey, 'kase
if yo' don't, ole Quor'm t'ink he cookin' no good."

In spite of the negro's consoling words, Worth's sleep that night was
broken, and he started at every sound. Towards morning a crash and a
smothered cry from the edge of the forest behind the camp caused him to
start to his feet in alarm, and wake his companion. Although no further
sound was heard, the boy was not satisfied until Quorum, taking a
torch, discovered a thieving 'coon, caught and killed by the dead-fall
that he had prepared for it. This was a simple figure =4= trap, set
under a bit of board that was weighted with a heavy rock.

As soon as breakfast was over the next morning, Worth returned to
his outlook station on the point, and remained there, with his eyes
fixed on Indian Key, for several hours. It was nearly noon when he was
startled by a shout from Quorum, who called out:

"Here him comin', honey! Here him comin' in er big schooner!"

Running back to the cove, which was not visible from where he had
been sitting, Worth saw the schooner at which Quorum was gazing so
eagerly. She was not more than a mile from them, and was bearing
rapidly down towards the island, though from a direction opposite to
that in which Indian Key lay. Still that did not dispel their hope that
Sumner might be on board and coming to their relief. They could see
that the schooner's deck was crowded with men, most of whom, as she
approached more closely, proved to be negroes. Among them Worth's keen
eyes distinguished, besides the whites composing her crew, one young
white man who for a few minutes he was certain must be Sumner. As the
schooner dropped anchor, and this person was sculled ashore in a small
boat by one of the negroes, they saw, to their great disappointment,
that he was a stranger.

He seemed surprised at seeing them on the key, and still more so when a
glance at their camp showed the use they had been making of the stores
they had so unexpectedly found there two days before.

"Oh, sir," exclaimed Worth, as the stranger landed, "have you seen
anything of Sumner Rankin? I mean of a boy on a raft?"

"No, I have not," was the answer. "But I see that some one, and I
expect it is the boy before me, has been making a free use of my
stores."

"Are they yours?" asked Worth, flushing. "We didn't know whose they
were or who left them here, and as we were almost starving, we ventured
to take what we needed; but I shall be glad to pay for whatever we
have used." With this the boy produced a roll of bills, and looked
inquiringly at the stranger.

"That's all right," laughed the other. "If you were starving, and had
need of them, of course you acted rightly in taking them. I am only too
glad that they were of use to you. I see, too, that you have sheltered
them from the weather."

"Yes," replied Worth, "and it rained so hard night before last, that if
they had not been under cover some of them would have been spoiled."

"Then we are quits," said the stranger; "and you have already more than
paid for what you can have used in so short a time. I have bought this
key, and intended to get here as soon as those things, which I sent up
on the mail-boat, but was unexpectedly delayed. My name is Haines, and
yours is--"

"Worth Manton," answered the boy; "and I was cruising up the reef in a
canoe with my friend Sumner Rankin. When we got here, some one stole
our canoes, or they got lost in some way, and so we were obliged to
stay. We found this old negro Quorum here. Yesterday Sumner went over
to Indian Key on a raft, to see if he could find the canoes, or get a
vessel to take us off. We haven't seen anything of him since he left,
and I am awfully afraid that something has happened to him."

"Oh, I guess not!" said the new-comer; "but if you like you can go over
there on this schooner and look for him. The captain is in a great
hurry to go on up the reef, as he is already two days late; but I guess
he will drop you at the key, and stop there for you on his way back to
Key West, if you want him to. But what is it that smells so good?" Here
the speaker sniffed at an appetizing odor that was wafted to them from
the direction of the little camp.

"I expect it is Quorum's 'coon that he is roasting for dinner," replied
Worth.

"'Coon? That is something I have never tasted; but I should be most
happy to experiment with it if it is half as good as it smells. Don't
you want to invite me to dine with you?"

"Of course I do," laughed Worth; "especially as most of the dinner will
consist of your own provisions."

A few minutes later they sat down to dinner together, and Mr. Haines
declared it to be the best he had eaten since coming to that part of
the country. He also praised the construction of the hut in which they
ate, and thanked Worth for having provided him with such comfortable
quarters.

While they were occupied with the meal, the black passengers of the
schooner landed. Among them Quorum discovered friends who confirmed
Sumner's statement that he was no longer suspected of the death of the
sponging captain.

After dinner several hours were spent in landing the lumber and other
freight with which the schooner was loaded. During this time Mr. Haines
learned all the details of Worth's experience in canoeing up the reef,
to which he listened with the greatest interest. He advised the boy to
remain patiently where he was until Sumner's return, or at least until
some word should be received from him. He was also anxious to engage
the services of such a capital cook as Quorum had proved himself by the
preparation of the dinner they had just eaten.

But the boy was so heart-sick with anxiety that he could not bear the
thought of a further period of inaction, and Quorum declared he could
not think of deserting the lad whom Sumner had left in his care.

So when the schooner was again ready to sail, they went on board,
taking with them their guns and a supply of provisions with which Mr.
Haines kindly provided them. He also insisted upon their taking a
couple of blankets, which, he said, they could return whenever they had
no further use for them, and he begged them to come back to the island
in case they should be disappointed in their search. Thus they parted
with an interchange of good wishes, and an hour later Worth and Quorum
were set ashore on Indian Key. Although they had seen no sign of Sumner
as they approached it, and the captain of the schooner had advised them
to keep on with him up the reef, they could not make up their minds to
do so until they had made a thorough examination of the key for traces
of their lost comrade. Nor were they inclined to leave those parts
so long as there was the faintest hope of hearing from him. So they
were hurriedly set ashore, and the schooner continued on her way, the
captain promising to stop there for them on his return trip.

Of course their search over the key was fruitless, and it was with
heavy hearts that they made themselves comfortable for the night in one
of its old buildings.

The next morning they wandered aimlessly over the narrow limits of the
little island, or sat in the rickety porch of their house watching the
column of smoke that, rising above Lignum Vitae, marked the beginning
of the cocoanut planter's operations. Turning from this, they would
gaze longingly out to sea without knowing what they hoped to discover.
Several schooners, bound both up and down the reef, passed during the
morning, but none of them came within hailing distance of the key. At
length Worth called out excitedly that he saw a canoe approaching from
the direction of Alligator Light. At that distance the sail that he was
watching certainly looked small enough to belong to a canoe; but as it
came closer it grew larger, until it resolved itself into that of a
good-sized cat-boat.

As it finally rounded to and came to anchor under the lee of the key,
a man who was its sole occupant sculled ashore in a dingy containing
several empty barrels. He was Assistant Keeper Albury, of Alligator
Light, who had come to the key for a supply of water from its old
cistern, the one belonging to the light having sprung a leak, and
being nearly empty. He was surprised to find strangers on the key, and
inquired at once what had become of their boat. After listening to
their story and eager questions, he said:

"Well, if that doesn't beat all! No, we haven't seen anything out at
the light of any young fellow floating on a raft; but we have got two
canoes out there that answer pretty well the description of them you
say you lost. What did you say their names were?"

"_Cupid_ and _Psyche_," replied Worth.

"Then they are yours, for them's the very names. If you want to go out
there with me after I fill my barrels, I've no doubt Mr. Spencer will
give them up to you."

This they decided to do. So, after helping the man fill his
water-barrels, they set sail with him for the light-house, which they
reached late that afternoon, after some hours of tedious drifting in a
calm.




CHAPTER XVI.

A NIGHT IN ALLIGATOR LIGHT.


While taking Worth and Quorum out to the light, Assistant Keeper Albury
told them how the canoes had been towed out to sea by a Jew-fish, and
described the difficulty he had had in capturing them. Although Worth
listened to all this with interest, his pleasure in having the mystery
cleared up, and at the prospect of recovering the canoes, was sadly
dampened by his increasing anxiety concerning Sumner's fate. What can
have become of him? was the question that he asked over and over again,
but to which neither of the men could give an answer.

They were cordially welcomed to the light by the keeper, who was always
glad to have visitors to his lonely domain, and Worth easily proved his
ownership of the canoes by describing their contents.

The light-house was a skeleton frame-work of iron, with its lower
platform about twelve feet above water that surrounded it on all sides.
On this platform lay the two canoes, side by side, looking as fresh
and unharmed as when Worth had last seen them at anchor off Lignum
Vitae. If Sumner had only been there, how he would have rejoiced over
them! As it was, he gave them but a hurried examination to assure
himself that they were all right, and then followed the keeper up the
flight of iron steps leading to the house. The portion of this in which
the men lived was a huge iron cylinder, surrounded by a balcony, and
divided into several rooms. Above it rose a slender iron shaft, in
which was a circular stairway leading to the lantern at its top. Worth
ascended this with the keeper to witness the lighting of the great
lamp, and the movements of the revolving machinery by which the red and
white flashes were produced.

From this elevation a long line of keys was visible, while the one they
had so recently left seemed quite close at hand. While gazing at it,
Worth saw a schooner come down the channel from the direction of Lignum
Vitae, and lower her sails, as if for the night, under its lee.

"Oh, Mr. Spencer!" he cried, "there's a schooner come to anchor close
to Indian Key. Perhaps her people are looking for us, and perhaps they
have brought news of Sumner. Can't we take the canoes now and sail over
there?"

"Bless you, no, lad! I wouldn't for anything have it on my conscience
that I'd let you go sailing around these waters at night in those
cockle-shells. There's no doubt but what she'll stay there till
morning, and if the weather is good, you can make a start as soon after
daylight as ever you like; but you'll have to content yourself here
till then. I couldn't think of letting you go before."

To this decision Worth was forced to submit, and after the lamp was
lighted he followed the keeper to the living-rooms below. Here he
found Quorum hard at work at his favorite occupation of cooking. He
was preparing a most savory fish chowder, and when they sat down to
supper both the keepers declared that in all their experience they had
never tasted its equal. The second assistant keeper was then absent on
the two-weeks' vacation, to which each of them was entitled after two
months of service in the light. They only regretted that Quorum could
not remain until his return, that he too might learn the possibilities
of a fish chowder.

Worth was so charmed with his novel surroundings, and by the quaint
bits of light-house experience related by the keepers, that until
bed-time, he almost forgot his anxiety. When he had gone to bed in the
scrupulously neat and clean guest-chamber, after charging the keepers
to waken him at the earliest dawn, it returned in full force, and for
a long time drove sleep from his eyes. As he lay listening to the
keeper on watch making his half-hourly trips up to the lantern, and to
the lapping of the waves about the iron piling of the foundation, he
imagined all sorts of dreadful things as having happened to Sumner, and
even after he fell asleep his dreams were of the same character.

From this unhappy dreaming he was awakened while it was still quite
dark, though the keeper, who was standing beside his bed, assured him
that day was breaking. At this, and remembering his cause for haste,
the boy sprang out of bed and quickly dressed himself. In the outer
room he found Quorum already up and waiting for him, and he also found
a steaming pot of coffee. Fortified by a cup of this and a biscuit, he
declared himself ready for the voyage back to Indian Key.

As they stepped outside, the light was sufficiently strong for them to
dimly discern the distant line of keys, and preparations were at once
made to place the canoes in the water. Worth's was the first swung from
the platform davits and lowered, while he, descending a rope-ladder,
one end of which touched the water, was ready to cast off the falls
and step into her. Then Quorum was invited to do the same thing with
the _Psyche_; but the old negro drew back apprehensively, exclaiming:

"No, sah, gen'l'men. De ole niggah am a big fool, but him no sich fool
dat him t'ink hese'f er monkey, an' go climbin' down er rope wha' don'
lead nowhar, 'cep' to er tickly egg-shell wha' done copsize de berry
instink he tetch foot to um. No, sah, gen'l'men; ole Quor'm too smart
fo' dat."

"Well, then, sit in the canoe where she is, and we'll lower you down in
her."

To this plan the old man was finally induced to agree, and with great
trepidation seated himself in the frail craft. The moment the men
began to sway away on the falls, he would have jumped out if he could.
As he was already swinging in mid-air, it was too late to do aught
save remain where he was. Clutching the sides of the cockpit tightly
with both hands, he closed up his eyes and resigned himself to his
fate. His face assumed an ashen tinge, and his lips moved as though
he were praying. He gave a convulsive start as the canoe dropped into
the water, but he did not open his eyes nor relax his clutch of the
coamings.

"Come, Quorum, get out your paddle. I'll show you how to use it,"
shouted Worth, after he had cast off the falls.

But he might as well have addressed the light-house for all the notice
the old man took of him. Finally, realizing that Quorum was utterly
helpless, and incapable of action, from fright, Worth took the _Psyche_
in tow, and paddling out from the light-house, bade the friendly
keepers a cheery good-bye, and started on his laborious trip to Indian
Key.

Although the sea was perfectly smooth, paddling two deeply laden canoes
proved heavy work for one person, and Worth would have doubtless become
exhausted long before reaching his destination had not a light breeze
sprung up at sunrise. Aided by this, he made such good progress that in
less than an hour he was rounding the point of Indian Key, behind which
the _Transit_ lay at anchor.

Sumner, who had just turned out, was gazing wistfully back at Lignum
Vitae, as though it still held the young comrade whose loss caused him
to feel so depressed, when he started as though he had been shot, at
the sound of his own name, uttered with a joyous shout but a short
distance from him.

[Illustration: QUORUM RESIGNS HIMSELF TO FATE.]

He could hardly credit his senses, or believe that he saw, sailing
merrily towards him, the long-lost canoes, bearing the very friends
on whose account he had been so anxious but a moment before. At the
same time Worth was equally bewildered and overcome with joyful
emotions.

"Hurrah! Glory hallelujah!" shouted Sumner, in the fulness of rejoicing.

At this sound Quorum started as though from a trance, and opened his
eyes for the first time since leaving the light. Whether he tumbled out
of the canoe accidently or on purpose, no one, not even himself, ever
found out; but the next instant he was in the water, puffing like a
porpoise, and swimming towards the land. Fortunately the distance was
short, so that in a few minutes he reached the rocks and pulled himself
out on them. There, scrambling to his feet, and with the water pouring
from him, he shook his fist at the craft he had so unceremoniously
deserted, exclaiming:

"Dat's de fustes an' de lastes time ole Quor'm ebber go sailin' in er
baby cradle! Yes, sah, de fustes an' de lastes!"




CHAPTER XVII.

AN ENTERTAINMENT ON THE KEY.


How Quorum managed to tumble out of the _Psyche_ without upsetting her
is a mystery, but he did it somehow. Seeing that he was easily making
his way to the land, Worth continued on his course to the _Transit_,
which he reached a minute later. The moment he stepped abroad, Sumner
threw his arms about the boy with what was intended for a joyful hug.
Worth returned it with interest. For a few seconds the two staggered
about the deck in what looked decidedly like a wrestling match to the
amused spectators of the scene, who had been attracted from below by
Sumner's shout. Finally they tripped and rolled with a crash into the
cockpit, where they scrambled to their feet, greeted by shouts of
laughter from Lieutenant Carey and Ensign Sloe, while even the men
forward were chuckling with ill-suppressed mirth.

Had Sumner and Worth been a few years older, they would probably have
expressed their joy over this happy and unexpected meeting with a
cordial hand-shake, and a few inquiries after each other's welfare
during their separation. That would have been a man's way. Happily, all
boys are not men, nor are their ways men's ways. Any genuine boy will
understand that nothing short of a wrestling match would have served to
express the joy with which these two young hearts were relieved of the
load of anxiety that had weighed so heavily upon them during the past
three days.

"But how did you know the canoes were out at the light, Worth?"
inquired Sumner, after the first boisterous greeting was over. "Excuse
me! Let me introduce you to Lieutenant Carey and Ensign Sloe. And how
did you get there? And how did you know that we were here?" exclaimed
Sumner, in a breath, as soon as he had regained his feet.

"The keeper told us," answered Worth, shaking hands with those to whom
he had just been introduced. "And I didn't know you were here. How did
you get here, and what became of the raft? Did you ever see anything
so absurd as Quorum? I don't believe he has opened his eyes since we
left the light, and I actually thought he was turning white, he was so
scared. Oh, Sumner, I never was so happy in my life!"

"Nor I," answered Sumner; "and if I ever leave you again, you young
scamp, before delivering you safe and sound to your lawful guardians,
you'll know it."

"And you may be mighty sure I won't be left again," answered Worth.
"No, siree! From this time on, you'll think I'm your shadow, I'll stick
to you so close."

By this time Quorum had been brought aboard, and Sumner, shaking hands
with him, gravely congratulated him upon having formed the habit of
taking a plunge bath before breakfast. With a reproachful look at the
lad, and without deigning to reply to his banter, Quorum turned away
and dived into the little forward galley. Here he quickly made himself
at home, and all the time he was drying by the galley stove he could be
heard entertaining the colored cook of the _Transit_ with a thrilling
description of his recent voyage in "dat ar tickly nutshell. Mo' like
er wash-basin dan er 'spectible boat; an' ef I don't hole her down wif
bofe han's till dey done achin', she flop ober like er flapjack. I tell
yo', chile, hit's er sperience sich as I don't want no mo' ob in all my
sailin'."

Around the breakfast-table in the tiny after-saloon Sumner and Worth
were comparing experiences and discussing their plans for the future.

"I tell you what it is, Sumner," exclaimed Worth, "I don't know about
cruising any farther up this reef, where we are likely at any time
to be seized and carried off to sea by some Jew-fish or other marine
monster. Seems to me it's taking a big risk."

"Then why not come with us through the 'Glades?" laughed Lieutenant
Carey. "There aren't any Jew-fish there. It will be almost the same
as cruising on dry land all the way, and we'll bring you out at Cape
Florida, the very point you are aiming for."

"I think that would be fine," answered Worth, who had no more idea of
the nature of the Everglades than he had of the moon. "What do you say,
Sumner?"

"It's the very thing I should most love to do," replied Sumner.

"Then you will go with us?" asked the Lieutenant.

"Yes, sir, we will," answered both the boys.

"Good! That settles it. Now do you suppose we can persuade your old
darkey to go along as cook? I think you said he was a good one, Sumner?"

"Indeed he is!" exclaimed Worth; "the very best I ever knew. Oh yes, we
must have Quorum along by all means."

When the plan was laid before him, Quorum shook his head doubtfully,
and said:

"I allus hear dem Ebberglades is a ter'ble place. Dey's full ob lions
an' tigers, sayin' nuffin' ob wild Injuns an' cannon-balls" (probably
Quorum meant cannibals). "But ef dem two chilluns boun' ter go, I spec'
ole Quor'm hab ter go 'long ter look after um, an' see dat dey's kep'
outen danger. Hit's er mighty owdacious undertaking fer de ole man;
but dish yere er peart-looking wessel, an' maybe she take us troo all
right."

"But we are not going in this vessel," laughed Sumner. "We couldn't
take her through the 'Glades."

"How yo go, den?" asked the negro, looking up quickly. "Not in them
tickly li'l' cooners?"

"Yes, some of us will go in the canoes, but you will have a much larger
boat; one that you can't possibly upset."

"When I see him, den I tell yo' ef I er gwine." And this was the only
promise that Quorum could be induced to give.

"Very well," said Lieutenant Carey, when this was reported to him; "we
will rig up the cruisers, and let Quorum sail one of them in to Lignum
Vitae. One of the men shall take the other, you two will sail your own
canoes, and I will sail mine, while Mr. Sloe shall follow with the
_Transit_. When Mr. Haines sees us coming he'll think he is looking at
a regatta of the Reef Yacht Club."

This plan suited the boys perfectly, and the next two hours were spent
in getting all the boats into the water, overhauling sails, spars,
etc. When Quorum saw the Barnegat cruiser that was assigned to him,
he declared, "Hit done look like er punkin seed, an' I don't beliebe
hit fit fer sailin' nohow." It was only with the greatest difficulty
that he could be persuaded to try the strange-looking craft. When he
finally did so, his eyes opened wide with astonishment at her speed and
stiffness, and the ease with which she was handled.

Each of the cruisers carried a large sprit-sail, and was fitted with a
pair of oars. They were provided with centre-boards, were fair sailers,
easy to row, practically non-capsizable, and capable of carrying heavy
loads without materially increasing their draught.

Quorum was a good sailor, and as soon as he became somewhat accustomed
to his craft he began to handle her in a way that showed an
appreciation of her qualities. When he shot ahead, after a little brush
with the other cruiser, the _Melon Seed_--as he termed her--his black
face fairly beamed with delight.

"Your man is as tickled with that boat as a child with a new toy,"
remarked Lieutenant Carey to Sumner, "and I guess there is no doubt now
but what he will go with us."

The Lieutenant's open paddling canoe was fitted with a leg-of-mutton
sail, but no centre-board. Thus the sail was only available for running
before the wind, which on this occasion happened to be fair. The three
canoes and the two cruisers, starting on their race to Lignum Vitae,
formed a very pretty sight. As they were followed by the _Transit_,
and by the schooner that had carried Worth and Quorum to Indian Key,
which came along on her return trip just then, it is no wonder that Mr.
Haines regarded the approaching fleet with astonishment.

The race was won by Sumner in the _Psyche_, with Quorum in his _Punkin
Seed_, and wildly excited, close behind. The other three were well
bunched, and the two schooners were worked under foresails only, to
keep from running them down.

All hands were made heartily welcome by the proprietor of Lignum Vitae,
who was made happy by the information that they proposed to stay there
that night. On hearing this he immediately began to plan a grand dinner
to which everybody was invited, and an entertainment for the evening.
He and Lieutenant Carey spent the afternoon in arranging for the
entertainment, the four cooks, with Quorum at their head, spent it in
preparing a most elaborate dinner, and the others spent it fishing and
sailing match races between the various small boats. As the hours flew
busily and happily by, Sumner and Worth wondered how they could ever
have felt wretched and forlorn in such a pleasant place.

The dinner, which was served shortly before sunset, was a veritable
feast. On its bill of fare appeared oysters, green-turtle soup, fish
chowder, turtle steaks, baked kingfish, stewed ducks, roasted 'possum,
a variety of canned vegetables, an immense plum duff, canned fruits,
crackers, cheese, and coffee; while the whole was seasoned with the
sauce of hearty appetites and capital digestions. It was a substantial
meal, as well as a merry one, and it gave Worth Manton a new insight
into the possibilities of life on the Florida Keys.

By hard work Mr. Haines had succeeded in raising the frame of the
little one-story house that he intended to occupy, and in getting the
floor laid. This was to be the scene of the entertainment, and an
hour or so after dinner all hands were collected here. Several large
bonfires shed a cheerful light on the circle of expectant faces, and
cast wavering shadows over the platform.

The first number on the programme was an overture by the Lignum Vitae
Band, which consisted of Mr. Haines's banjo, Lieutenant Carey's guitar,
Ensign Sloe's violin, and a flute played by one of the _Transit's_
men. Then Worth danced a clog, and was received with immense applause.
He was followed by Sumner, who performed a number of sleight-of-hand
tricks that drew forth exclamations of astonishment from the negroes.
A mouth-organ quartet by four of the negro hands, was followed by Mr.
Haines's banjo solo. This was of such an inspiring character that all
the negroes patted time to it, and finally Quorum sprang upon the
platform and, with his beloved pipe still held tightly between his
teeth, began to shuffle a breakdown in such a comical manner that it
was received with tumultuous applause and roars of laughter. Solo
and chorus singing followed, and the entertainment wound up with the
singing of "Annie Laurie" by a quartet of sailors.

Both Sumner and Worth were certain that they had never passed a more
enjoyable evening, and were almost sorry that they had promised to
leave there and start for the Everglades on the following morning.

[Illustration: QUORUM DANCES A BREAK-DOWN.]




CHAPTER XVIII.

OFF FOR THE EVERGLADES.


Both Sumner and Worth were by this time quite used to being turned out
of bed while it was still dark, and told that it was morning and time
to make a start. So, when the familiar summons was heard, a few hours
after their evening of fun, they obeyed them, though not without some
sleepy grumblings and protests. The stars were still shining when they
went on deck for a look at the weather, and they shivered with the
chill of the damp night air.

There were faint evidences of daylight, however, and the welcome
fragrance of coffee was issuing from the galley. They felt better after
drinking a cup of it, but did not consider themselves fairly awake
until the sails were hoisted, the anchor lifted, and the _Transit_
began to move slowly out from under Lignum Vitae.

Just as they were getting fairly under way, a sleepy hail of "Good-bye,
and good-luck to you!" came from the edge of the forest on the key
where the night shadows still lingered. Then, with answering shouts of
"Good-bye, Mr. Haines! Good-bye to Lignum Vitae!" they were off.

The reason for such an early start was that, with four boats in tow,
even the _Transit_ could not be expected to make very good speed, and
Mr. Carey was anxious to cover the sixty-mile run to Cape Sable before
dark.

For the first three hours Sumner was kept constantly at the helm,
directing the course of the schooner through a multiplicity of tortuous
channels, between coral reefs, oyster-bars, and a score of low-lying
mangrove keys. All this time Lieutenant Carey stood beside him, keeping
track of the courses steered and noting on his chart the position of
the channels, together with the names of the keys, so far as Sumner
was able to give them. The knowledge that the lad displayed of these
uncharted waters, and the skill with which he handled the schooner, so
excited the lieutenant's admiration that he finally said: "I declare,
Sumner, I don't believe there is a better pilot in the whole Key West
sponging fleet than you! How on earth do you remember it all?"

"I don't know," laughed Sumner, "I expect it comes natural, as the man
said when asked what made him so lazy."

"Well," said the lieutenant, "I am mighty glad to have you along
instead of that fellow Bust Norris, though he did intimate that your
ignorance of the reef would get us into trouble. He was greatly cut up
when I told him that, as you were going with me, I should not require
his services, and tried to say some mean things about you; but I shut
him up very quickly. He doesn't seem to be a friend of yours, though."

"I don't know why he shouldn't be," replied Sumner, "I am sure I feel
friendly enough towards him. I suppose it must be because I wouldn't
let him try my canoe the other day, and left him on the buoy that
night. I only meant that as a joke though, and was just about to start
out for him, when I saw a fisherman pick him up."

Here Sumner related the incident referred to, and the lieutenant said,
as Mr. Manton had, that the fellow was rightly served. Then the subject
was dropped, and they thought of it no more.

As they were now in open water, with all traces of land rapidly fading
in the distance behind them, Sumner laid a course for Sandy Key, the
only one they would see before reaching Cape Sable, resigned the
tiller, and invited Worth to try his hand at trolling. The _Transit_
being well provided with fishing tackle they soon had two long trolling
lines towing astern. Worth said he was going in for big fish, and so
attached to the end of his line a bright leaden squid terminating in a
heavy, finely-tempered hook.

Sumner, believing that there would be as much sport and more profit
in trying for those that were smaller, but more plentiful, used a
much lighter hook, baited with a bit of white rag. Worth would not
believe that any fish could be so foolish as to bite at such a bait.
His incredulity quickly vanished, however, as Sumner began to pull
in, almost as fast as he could throw his line overboard, numbers of
Crevalle, or "Jack," beautiful fellows tinted with amber, silver, and
blue, and Spanish mackerel, one of the finest fish in southern waters.
Seeing that Sumner was having all the fun, while he could not get a
bite, Worth began to haul in his line with a view to putting on a
smaller hook, and baiting it with a bit of rag. Suddenly there was a
swish through the water, a bar of silver gleamed for an instant in the
air, a hundred feet astern, and Worth's line began to whiz through his
hands with lightning-like rapidity. With a howl of pain, he dropped
it as though it had been a red-hot coal, and began dancing about the
cockpit, wringing his hands and blowing his fingers.

"Snub him, Worth, quick! or he'll have your line," cried Sumner,
springing to his friend's assistance. "It's a barracuda, and a big
one!" He got a turn around the rudder-post just in time to save the
line, and then began a fight that set the young fisherman's blood to
tingling with excitement. In spite of his smarting fingers, Worth
insisted upon pulling in his own fish; while the barracuda seemed
equally intent upon pulling his captor overboard. Such leaping and
splashing, such vicious tugs and wild rushes ahead, astern, and off to
one side, as that barracuda made, were far beyond anything in the way
of fishing that Worth had ever experienced. For ten minutes the fight
was maintained with equal vigor on both sides. Every inch of slack was
carefully taken in. With the stout rudder-post to aid him, Worth was
slowly but surely gaining the victory, and the great, steely-blue fish
was drawn closer and closer to the schooner.

At length he was within fifty feet, and Worth's flushed face was
lighting with triumph, when, all at once there came a rush of some
vast, white object astern. A huge pair of open jaws, lined with
glistening rows of teeth, closed with a vicious snap, and a moment
later Worth, whose face was a picture of bewildered amazement, pulled
in the head of his fish minus its body.

"Was it a whale, do you think?" he asked, soberly, turning to Sumner.

"No," replied the other, laughing at his companion's crestfallen
appearance, "but it was the biggest kind of a shark, and he would have
snapped you in two as easily as he did that barracuda, if you had been
at that end of the line."

By noon they had left Sandy Key astern, and before sunset they had
passed the stately cocoanut groves on Cape Sable and Palm Point, and
were rounding Northwest Cape. Just at dusk they headed into a creek,
not more than twenty feet wide, and directly afterwards came to anchor
in the deep, roomy basin to which it was the entrance. The basin was
already occupied by a small sloop, and as Sumner's knowledge of those
waters did not extend beyond that point, Lieutenant Cary anticipated
being able to gain some information from her crew. With this in view he
anchored but a short distance from her, and after everything was made
snug for the night, he hailed her with:

"Hello on board the sloop!"

"Hello yourself! What schooner is that?"

"The Government schooner _Transit_, and I should be very glad to see
any of you on board."

"Where are you bound?"

"Into the 'Glades. Will you come over after a while, or shall I go
aboard the sloop? I want to have a talk with you."

"I reckon we'll come over."

"Those fellows don't seem inclined to be very sociable," remarked the
Lieutenant to Ensign Sloe, as they went down into the cabin to supper.
At the same time Sumner was saying to Worth, "I wonder who that fellow
is? His voice sounded very familiar."

When they again came on deck after supper, the night was so dark that
they could not see the sloop, though they supposed her to be lying
close to them.

"Hello aboard the sloop!" again hailed Lieutenant Carey.

There was no answer, nor did several hails serve to bring a reply of
any kind.

"Let's take my canoe and go for a look at those fellows, Sumner," said
the Lieutenant. "They have quite excited my curiosity."

In a few minutes the canoe was afloat, and its occupants were paddling
in the direction of where the sloop was thought to lie. For half an
hour they paddled back and forth, and in circles, being guided in their
movements by the bright riding light of the _Transit_. Once they struck
a floating oar that seemed to be attached to a cable; but they could
discover no trace of the sloop, nor did their repeated hailings bring
forth a single answer.

At length, greatly perplexed by such unaccountable behavior on
the part of the sloop's crew, and nearly devoured by the clouds
of mosquitoes that swarmed above the lagoon, they returned to the
schooner, and thankfully sought the shelter of her wire-screened cabin.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE CANOES ARE AGAIN LOST, AND AGAIN FOUND.


In that snug harbor there was so little chance of danger that no watch
was kept, and all hands turning in, after a pleasant evening spent in
smoking and discussing plans, slept soundly until morning. Although the
sun had gone down in a blaze of ominous glory the evening before, and
the breeze had died out in an absolute calm, no one was fully prepared
for the wonderful change of scene disclosed by the morning. While their
land-locked harbor was still as placid as a mill-pond where they were
anchored, it was blackened and roughened by the gusts of fierce squalls
but a short distance from them. The continuous roar of breakers outside
denoted a furious sea, the cause of which was shown by the lashing
tree-tops and the howlings of a gale overhead. The sky was hidden
behind masses of whirling clouds, while after the tropical weather to
which they had become accustomed, the air seemed very cold, though
the mercury had not fallen below 50 deg. The gale was a typical Norther,
that, sweeping down from Texas prairies, had gathered strength in its
unchecked progress across the Gulf, and was now hurling itself with
furious energy against the low Florida coast.

"Whew! What a day!" cried Sumner, as he emerged from the warm cabin and
stood shivering in the cockpit. "I tell you what, old man, I'm glad we
are in this snug haven, instead of outside."

"So am I," said Worth, who had followed Sumner, and to whom these
remarks were addressed. "I'm afraid canoes would stand a pretty sorry
chance out there just now."

"Canoes! Well, I should say so! They'd be--Great Scott! Where _are_ the
canoes and the cruisers?"

Sumner had just taken his first glance astern, and as he uttered this
exclamation he sprang to the little after-deck, and stared about him.
The three canoes and the two cruisers had been left for the night
attached to a single stout line which was made fast to the _Transit's_
rudder-post. Now they were gone, and not a sign of them was to be seen
as far as the eye could reach.

"If that doesn't beat anything I ever heard of!" exclaimed Sumner, in
bewilderment.

"I should think a jew-fish big enough to take them all might just as
well have taken the schooner, too," said Worth.

"Yes, I expect she will be stolen from under us the next thing we
know," replied Sumner, "and I expect if we ever get our canoes again
we'd better put them into a burglar-proof safe and hire a man with a
dog to watch them nights. I never heard of anybody losing canoes as
easily as we do. Where do you suppose they can have gone to, sir?"

This question was addressed to Lieutenant Carey, who, together with
Ensign Sloe, had been attracted to the deck by Sumner's first dismayed
exclamation.

"I've no more idea than you have," replied the Lieutenant, gravely.
"The jew-fish is not to blame this time, at any rate, for there was
no anchor down that he could get hold of, and this rope has evidently
been cut." Here the speaker displayed the end of the rope that had
hung over the stern, and pointed to the clean cut by which it had been
severed. "It is evident that some human agency has been at work," he
continued, "and I am inclined to connect it with the strange behavior
of the fellows on that sloop; though what their object in stealing our
boats was, I can't imagine. It is a very serious matter to us, however,
and one that calls for prompt investigation. As this wind must have
sprung up early in the night, it is hardly probable that the boats can
have been taken out to sea, and if they were not they must be somewhere
in this lagoon, perhaps concealed in the mangroves, or in one of the
sloughs that empty into it. It is lucky that we have the canvas boat
left, for I should hate to try and navigate the _Transit_ in these
unknown waters with such a gale blowing."

The canvas boat, of which the Lieutenant spoke, was a folding affair
that was stowed under the cockpit floor, and was a part of the
schooner's regular outfit. Although it was very light, it could easily
accommodate three persons, and was a capital thing to fall back on in
an emergency like the present.

Mr. Carey ordered it to be got out and put in shape at once. After
breakfast he and Sumner, with one of the crew to row, stepped into
it and started on their search. They skirted the shore as closely as
possible, both to escape the force of the wind, and that they might
the more carefully examine the dense mangrove thickets that, with
occasional stretches of white beach, formed the coast-line.

The mangrove, which here attains the size of oaks, is one of the most
curious of trees, and in one particular closely resembles the banyan.
Its small yellow blossom, which is eagerly sought by honey-bees, forms
a long brown seed about the size and shape of a cigar. This, falling
off, readily takes root in mud-flats, beneath shallow salt or brackish
water, and shoots up a straight slender stem having numerous branches.
Some of these branches bend downward to the water, sending their tips
into the mud, where they in turn take root. At length the tree is thus
surrounded by a circle of woody arches that soon become strong enough
to support the weight of a man. As the tree increases in height, the
upper branches send down long straight shoots that also take root and
form independent trunks. Mangroves grow with marvellous rapidity, and
quickly cover large areas, where their thickly interlaced, arching
roots hold all manner of drift and sea-weed, until finally a soil
is formed in which the seeds of coarse grasses and other vegetation
sprout and flourish. Thus, in the course of time, an island of dry land
appears and is lifted above the water. In this way the coral reefs of
the Florida coast are gradually transformed into verdant keys, the
mangrove taking up and continuing the work of island building just
below the surface of the water, where the coral insect leaves off. The
mangrove is covered with a thick foliage of small glossy leaves, that
is such a favorite haunt for mosquitoes, that wherever mangroves grow,
mosquitoes are found in countless millions.

Skirting this wonderful mangrove forest, and occasionally penetrating
shallow bayous in which herons, cranes, ibises, pelicans, and curlews
swam and waded, the occupants of the canvas boat searched for several
hours in vain. Finally, as they were on the opposite side of the broad
lagoon from their starting-point, and exposed to the full force of the
wind, Sumner called out that he saw something that looked like masts
on the edge of a distant clump of mangroves. It was no easy task to
navigate successfully through the heavy sea running at this point;
but when they had accomplished it, they were rewarded by seeing the
entire missing fleet piled up in the greatest confusion among the
mangroves, which at this place extended far out into the water. Before
they reached them both the Lieutenant and Sumner were obliged to jump
overboard in water above their waists, to prevent the canvas boat from
swamping in the breakers.

The picture presented by their stranded fleet looked like one of
utter ruin. Sumner trembled for the fate of his precious canoe, and
the Lieutenant wondered if his expedition had thus been brought to an
untimely end. There was a small beach but a short distance away, to
which the sailor took the canvas boat, and then returned to help them
clear the wrecks. One by one the several craft, all of them full of
water, were extricated from the tangled mass, and dragged to the beach
for examination. The three canoes were found to be badly scratched, and
damaged so far as looks went; but still sound and seaworthy. This was
undoubtedly owing to their lightness, and the exceeding care with which
canoes are built. In their construction the question of expense is not
considered; consequently, being built of the best material, by the most
skilful workmen, they are stronger than ordinary craft many times their
size.

Their sails were muddied and torn, and some of their slender spars
were broken; but as most of their cargoes had been transferred to the
_Transit_ before leaving Lignum Vitae, this was the extent of their
injury. Sumner was jubilant when a careful examination of every part of
them revealed this fact; but Mr. Carey, who was devoting his attention
to the cruisers, looked very grave. Both of them were badly stove, and
it was evident that only extensive repairs could render them again fit
for service.

"Who could have done this thing, and why was it done?" he repeated over
and over again in deep perplexity; while Sumner, equally at fault,
tried to recall whose voice it was that had seemed so familiar when
they had exchanged hails with the sloop.

After emptying the canoes, and hauling the cruisers high up on the
beach, where they were to be left for the present, the party set forth
on their return trip. The Lieutenant went in his own canoe, Sumner in
his, while the sailor in the canvas boat towed the _Cupid_.

As they neared the schooner they saw her people pointing eagerly
towards a bit of beach near the head of the creek through which they
had entered the lagoon the evening before. Looking in that direction,
they saw a white man beckoning to them and shouting, though they could
not distinguish his words.

Readily understanding that he was in distress of some kind, the
Lieutenant and Sumner headed their canoes in his direction. As they
neared him, they saw that he was hatless, and clad only in a shirt and
trousers that were torn and water-soaked. The first words they could
distinguish were:

"Our boat is going to pieces outside, and Rust Norris is in her with a
broken arm."

"Rust Norris!" That was the name Sumner had been racking his memory
for, and his was the voice that had come to them from the sloop on the
preceding evening.




CHAPTER XX.

THE _PSYCHE_ AS A LIFE-BOAT.


"Just where does the sloop lie?" asked Sumner, as the bow of his canoe
ran on to the beach where the man stood.

The latter explained the position of the stranded vessel so clearly
that the boy, who was familiar with the locality, comprehended it in a
moment.

"She's about a mile from the mouth of the creek, and a quarter off
shore," said the man. "When the tide went down I partly swum and partly
waded to the beach. I don't know how I ever got ashore alive, but the
thought of poor Rust out there kinder nerved me on, and so I made it at
last. I wouldn't do it again, though, for all the money in Key West.
Now I've been here so long waiting for help, and the tide's rising
again so fast, that I'm afraid it's all day with poor Rust. If he ain't
swept off the wrack by this time he soon will be, and I don't know as
there is anything can be done for him. It wouldn't be possible for the
schooner to get anywhere near the wrack, she's dragged in so fur over
the reefs, and the small boat isn't built that could live in them seas."

"Yes, she is," said Sumner, quietly, but with a very pale face; "this
boat that I am sitting in can live out there, and she's got to do it,
too." So saying, he set his double-bladed paddle into the sand, and
with a vigorous shove sent the light craft gliding backward into deep
water.

The man stared at him in speechless amazement, while the Lieutenant
called out: "Don't try it, Sumner! You must be crazy to think of such
a thing! You'll only be throwing away your own life for nothing! Come
back, and we'll think of some other plan."

"There isn't time to think of another plan," Sumner called back over
his shoulder. "I must go, and I know I can do it. If you will have some
of the men out there on the beach, ready to help us land, we'll make it
easy enough. Good-bye!"

Impelled by vigorous strokes of Sumner's paddle, the _Psyche_ was
already gliding down the smooth waters of the sheltered creek, and it
was too late to restrain the impetuous young canoeman from carrying out
his project. Realizing this, and also that Sumner's plan, hazardous as
it seemed, was the only feasible one, Lieutenant Carey, with a heavy
heart, set about doing his own share of the work in hand. He took the
stranger off to the schooner, and after swallowing a cup of hot coffee,
of which he stood greatly in need, the man declared himself ready to
guide a party to the beach opposite the place where the sloop lay.

Dinner was ready and waiting on board the _Transit_, but nobody thought
of stopping to eat a mouthful after learning the news of what was
taking place. The sole anxiety was to reach the beach as quickly as
possible. The instant the stranger said he was ready, all hands, except
those ordered to remain by the schooner, began to tumble into the
available canoes, eager to be set ashore.

Poor Worth was sadly distressed when he heard of the terrible task
undertaken by his friend, but he tried to cheer himself and the others
by declaring that if any boat could live outside it was the canoe
_Psyche_, and if any living sailor could carry her through the seas,
whose angry roar filled the air, it was Sumner Rankin.

In the mean time the brave young fellow who was the object of all this
anxiety had reached the mouth of the creek. There, in a sheltered
spot, he paused for a few minutes to take breath and make his final
preparations for a plunge into the roaring breakers outside.

He set taut the foot steering gear, took double reefs in both his
sails, saw that the halyards were clear and ready for instant service,
adjusted the rubber apron so that the least possible water should enter
the cockpit, and then, with a firm grasp of his paddle, he shoved off.

In another minute he was breasting the huge, combing breakers of the
outer bar, and working with desperate energy to force his frail craft
through or over them. The roar of waters was deafening, while the
fierce gusts rendered breathing difficult. At one moment the sharp bow
of the canoe would point vaguely towards the sky, while the next would
see it directed into a watery abyss, and plunging downward as though
never to rise again. At such moments the rudder would be lifted from
the water, and only the most skilful use of the paddle prevented the
canoe from broaching to and being rolled over and over, to be finally
dashed in fragments on the beach. Again and again the wave crests broke
on her deck, sweeping her fore and aft with a blinding mass of hissing
water.

Still the boy's strength held out, still his paddle was wielded with
regular strokes, and finally he came off victorious in this first bout
of his fierce, single-handed struggle. The line of breakers was passed,
and riding over the comparatively regular seas beyond, he began
working dead to windward for an offing.

Not until he was a good half-mile off shore, and very nearly exhausted
by his tremendous efforts, did he push back the rubber apron, drop his
centre-board, and then, steadying the canoe with his paddle, seize a
favorable opportunity for hoisting the tiny after-sail that should
keep her momentarily headed into the wind. Then, quickly unjointing
his paddle and thrusting its parts into the cockpit, he grasped the
halyard, and with a single pull set the double-reefed main-sail.

Now was a most critical moment, for as he pulled in on the main-sheet,
and the sail began to feel the full force of the wind, the little
craft heeled over gunwale under. Only by promptly scrambling to the
weather-deck, and sitting with his feet braced under the lee coaming,
while his whole body was thrown out far over the side, did he prevent
her from capsizing. Then she gathered headway and dashed forward. With
one hand on the deck tiller, and holding the main-sheet in the other,
the boy peered anxiously ahead.

Yes, there was the wreck! Oh, so far away! with clouds of white spray
dashing high above it. Could he ever reach it through those tumultuous
seas? Lifting him high in the air, where he was exposed to the full
force of the wind at one moment, they towered above the deep trough
into which he sank at the next, and left his bits of sails shaking as
if in a calm. With full confidence in himself and his boat, he believed
he could reach it--and he did.

He had no time to look at the anxious watchers on the beach, but they
noted his every movement with painful eagerness. They almost held their
breath as some huge wave tossed him high aloft, and again as he was
completely hidden from them behind its foam-capped crest. At length
they saw him reach a point abreast the wreck, round sharply to under
its lee, and seize his paddle. In another minute he was on board, with
the first half of his task accomplished.

He found Rust Norris crouching in the lee of the little deck-house,
nearly exhausted with pain, hours of cold drenching, and the terror of
his position. The wreck was trembling so violently with each shock of
the seas that it seemed as though she must break up beneath their feet.

Rust's left arm was supported in a rude sling made from a strip of his
shirt knotted about his neck. He did not speak as the boy bent over
him, but an expression of glad surprise and renewed hope lighted his
haggard face.

[Illustration: "HE FOUND RUST NORRIS CROUCHING IN THE LEE OF THE LITTLE
DECK-HOUSE."]

"Come, Rust," shouted Sumner; "with one big effort you'll be all right.
They are waiting for you on the beach, and the canoe will carry you
that far easy enough, if you can only manage to get into her. You will
have to sit low down and steer with your feet while you hold the sheet
in your hand. All you'll have to do is to run her in dead before the
wind, head on for the beach."

With infinite difficulty the wounded man was finally seated in the
narrow cockpit of the frail craft. A moment later it was shoved off
from the trembling wreck, and was racing with fearful speed towards
the beach. It seemed to leap from the top of one huge wave to the next
without sinking into the intervening hollow. Not until it was dragged
safely ashore by those who rushed into the breakers to meet the flying
craft did Rust Norris realize that he was her sole occupant.




CHAPTER XXI.

SUMNER'S SELF-SACRIFICE.


If Rust Norris had not been rendered so nearly helpless by his broken
arm, Sumner would have endeavored to make the _Psyche_ bear them both
safely to land, if not by carrying them, at least by supporting them
while they swam alongside. On his way to the wrecked sloop he had
thought that perhaps this might be done, but as soon as he discovered
Rust's real condition he knew that he might as well leave him there
to drown as to attempt to burden the light craft with their double
weight. At that moment the lad made up his mind that Rust should have
the canoe to himself, and that he would take whatever chance of escape
still remained. Thus he had resolutely shoved the canoe off, with
its single occupant, while he stayed behind, clinging to the leeward
mast-stay, and watching with eager eyes the perilous passage to the
beach of the man for whom he had risked so much. The act was a bit of
that coolly-planned self-sacrificing heroism that stamps true bravery,
and distinguishes it from recklessness.

In his exhausted and partially dazed condition, Rust did not realize
the sacrifice made by his young deliverer until the canoe had been
snatched from the breakers by a dozen willing hands, and drawn high on
the beach beyond their cruel grasp. Then, on looking for the boy and
seeing that he had remained behind, he uttered a great cry, and sank
down limp and helpless on the wet sand.

Those on shore had seen from the first that only one was coming in the
canoe, while one was left behind, but they had not known which was
approaching them until the _Psyche_ was dragged from the breakers.

Worth was in an agony of despair at his friend's peril. "Let me go to
him!" he cried. "I would rather drown than stand here without trying to
save him!"

"No; let me go! Let me go!" cried the others; and they made frantic
attempts to again launch the canoe through the breakers; but they might
as well have tried to launch it through a stone wall. Again and again
was it hurled back, while those who strove to launch it were torn from
their footing and flung upon the beach.

Then there was a shout of "Here he comes! He is in the water!" and
then they strained their eyes in vain for another glimpse of their
well-loved young comrade.

Sumner had indeed taken the plunge, but not voluntarily. He had
determined to remain by the sloop until she broke up and he was
compelled to swim, or until the falling tide should render the passage
of that seething maelstrom less terrible. Thus thinking, he was about
to seek the poor shelter in which he had found Rust, when a great wave,
rushing over the wreck, swept him from it, and buried him beneath tons
of its mighty volume.

As he came gasping to the surface he was again almost immediately
overwhelmed and borne under. Still, he had drawn a breath of air, and
had noted the direction of the beach. He knew that, sooner or later,
alive or dead, the waves would cast him ashore. So, without trying to
swim forward, he devoted all his energies to reaching the surface, and
breathing as often as possible. It seemed as though he were merely
rising and sinking, without moving forward an inch, and it required
all his self-control to keep from exhausting himself by violent
struggles to make a perceptible headway. He retained his presence of
mind, however, and after a half-hour of battle the very waves seemed
to acknowledge his victory, and tossed him up within sight of the
watchers, who had given up all hope except that of finding his lifeless
body.

They uttered a glad shout; but it was checked as he was again buried
from their sight. Again he appeared, and this time much nearer. Then
Lieutenant Carey rushed into the water. Behind him Worth, Quorum, and
the others formed a line, tightly grasping each other's hands, and at
length the swimmer was within their reach.

With cries of exultant joy, they bore him up the beach and laid him on
the sand; but their rejoicing was quickly succeeded by consternation.
He lay with closed eyes, cold, and apparently lifeless.

"Hurry to the schooner, Worth, and tell them to have hot water, hot
blankets, and a roaring fire ready by the time we get there," demanded
the Lieutenant. "We will bring him as quickly as possible."

For hours they worked over the senseless form of the brave lad. So
nearly had the sea accomplished its cruel purpose that, but for the
lessons learned by the workers years before at Annapolis, Sumner
Rankin's life would have been given in exchange for that of Rust
Norris. At length a faint color tinged his cheeks, a faint breath came
from between his lips, and they knew that their efforts had not been in
vain. An hour later he was sleeping quietly, and it was certain that
Nature would complete the work of restoration. Then the same skill that
had snatched life from apparent death was directed to the setting and
proper bandaging of Rust's broken arm.

The Norther continued to blow all that night and the following day, and
during this period of enforced idleness Sumner was not allowed to leave
his berth. His every want was anticipated, and those who surrounded him
vied with each other in their tender care of the lad who had so well
won their regard and admiration. As for Rust Norris, his whole nature
seemed to have undergone such a change that his former intimates would
hardly have recognized him. He sat and watched constantly beside the
boy to whom he owed so much, and could hardly be persuaded to leave him
for the briefest intervals.

During that second day of storm he made a full confession of how and
why he had attempted to thwart the objects of Lieutenant Carey's
expedition. His enmity had been particularly directed towards Sumner,
and when the latter instead of himself had been chosen to pilot
the _Transit_ up the reef, he had formed a plan of revenge that he
immediately proceeded to carry out. This was to visit the Everglade
Indians, and inform them that the expedition was for the purpose of
spying out their lands and preparing for their removal to a far-away
country of cold and snow, where they would certainly die. To accomplish
this he had joined a Bahama smuggler, and with a cask of rum as a
cargo, they had sailed in the small sloop owned by the latter for Cape
Sable. Here they met a party of Indians who had come down from the
'Glades on a deer-hunt, and after plying them with rum, roused them to
anger by their lying tale concerning the coming expedition. The Indians
had departed to spread the report to the rest of their band, and to
devise plans for frustrating the supposed purpose of the expedition.
Their departure had taken place on the day of the _Transit's_ arrival
on the coast, and but for the signs of the approaching Norther, Rust
Norris and his companion would have left the lagoon in which they were
so snugly anchored that afternoon. Noting these signs they decided to
remain where they were until it should blow over. They had no idea
when the _Transit_ would reach the cape, nor did they suppose that
Sumner was aware of the passage into the lagoon. It was therefore
with surprise and consternation that they found those whom they had
attempted to injure anchored close beside them. They at once determined
to take advantage of the darkness to run out of the lagoon before the
storm broke, and seek another shelter among the mangrove keys a short
distance farther inland.

They slipped their cable, not daring to lift the anchor for fear the
sound might be heard on board the schooner, and drifted down to the
mouth of the creek with the last of the ebb-tide. Here, while waiting
for a breeze, Rust conceived the idea of effectually crippling the
expedition by stealing their boats, and went back up the creek for that
purpose. He cut them loose from the schooner and attempted to tow them
silently down to where the sloop lay, but as the tide had turned and
was flooding strongly up the creek, he found it impossible to do so. So
he turned them adrift in the belief that they would be driven to the
farther side of the lagoon, and dashed to pieces by the storm that was
about to break. At any rate, the expedition would be so long delayed in
recovering their boats that the news of their coming would be spread
over the length and breadth of the Everglades before they could enter
them.

So much time had thus been wasted that before the sloop could be taken
to the proposed place of safety the storm burst in all its fury.
They were forced to seek refuge in another place that was partially
exposed, but where with two anchors they could probably have ridden
out the gale. With but one, they were dragged from their moorings soon
after daylight, and driven on the reef where the sloop now lay. Rust's
arm had been broken by the gybing of the main boom, and, left alone,
exposed to the fury of those raging seas, he had given up all hope long
before Sumner came to his rescue.

"And to think," said Rust, in conclusion, "that the fellow to whom I
was doing all this meanness should have come after me and offered to
throw away his own life to save mine! I tell you, gentlemen, it makes
me feel meaner 'n a toad-fish!"




CHAPTER XXII.

GOOD-BYE TO THE _TRANSIT_


That night the Norther broke, and by the following morning the weather
was of that absolutely perfect character that makes the winter the most
delightful season of the year in southern Florida. The sun shone with
unclouded splendor, fish leaped from the clear waters, gay-plumaged
birds flitted among the mangroves, and made the air vocal with their
happy songs. All nature was full of life and rejoicing.

[Illustration: REPAIRING THE "PUNKIN SEED".]

Although Lieutenant Carey was much disturbed by learning that false
reports had been spread among the Indians concerning the nature of
his expedition, and realized that its difficulties would be greatly
increased thereby, he had no thought of abandoning it. Therefore, by
the earliest daylight, preparations were made for repairing the damaged
cruisers, and putting them in condition for a new start. The stanch
little _Psyche_ had been brought down the beach the day before. There
was a good supply of tools aboard the schooner, and Sumner, who had
fully recovered his strength, was found to be so expert a shipwright
that he was intrusted with planning and directing the repairs to the
cruisers, while the Lieutenant, with several men, went to examine into
the condition of the wrecked sloop, and see what could be done with her.

They found her injuries so much less than was expected, that within
three days she had been hauled off the reef and rendered sufficiently
seaworthy for the voyage back to Key West.

In this time also Sumner finished his job on the cruisers, and they
were again in thorough order for the work required of them.

Rust Norris was able to render them one service, by guiding them to
some cisterns from which they obtained the supply of fresh-water,
without which they would not have dared proceed on their cruise. His
companion, who was a good hunter and well acquainted with the game
resorts of that vicinity, provided them with plenty of fresh venison.
He also won Worth's regard by giving him a turkey call, or whistle,
made from one of the wing-bones of a wild turkey, and taking him
off before daylight one morning on a turkey hunt. From this the boy
returned fully as proud as the fine gobbler he had shot had been a
short time before. So elated was he by this success that he declared
himself to be the hunter of the expedition from that time forth, and
promised to provide it with all necessary meat.

By the close of the third day after the storm everything was in
readiness for a new start. That evening was spent in writing letters to
be sent back by the sloop, and daylight of the following morning saw
both vessels standing out of the lagoon. Once outside, the sloop bore
away to the westward, its occupants waving their hats and shouting good
wishes to those whom but a few days before they had tried their best to
injure.

"I declare!" said Sumner to Worth, "I don't know of anything that makes
a fellow feel better than to succeed in turning an enemy into a friend.
Now I shall always like Rust Norris, and he will always like me, while
if no difficulty had arisen between us we might have been on speaking
terms all our lives without caring particularly for each other."

"But, Sumner!" exclaimed Worth, in a grieved tone, "aren't you ever
going to care particularly for me, because we have never been enemies?"

"Care for you, old man! After all we have gone through with together,
and after all the anxiety we have had on account of each other? Why,
Worth, if I cared any more for you than I do, I'd pack you up in
cotton and send you home by express, for fear you might get hurt."

"Then please don't," laughed the boy, "for I want to see the
Everglades, and do some more hunting before I am sent home."

Although Worth was so impatient to see the 'Glades, and though the
_Transit_ was headed directly for them, he was obliged to content
himself with seeing other things for some days to come. For a whole
week the little schooner threaded her way through the most bewildering
maze of islands, reefs, and channels known to this continent. There
were thousands of keys of all sizes and shapes, and all covered with
the mangroves that had built them. As for the oyster-bars, sand-bars,
and reefs, they were so numerous that, in finding her way through them,
the _Transit_ was headed to every point, half-point, and quarter-point
of the compass during each hour of her sailing time. The number of
times that she ran aground were innumerable, as were those that she was
compelled to turn back from some blind channel and seek a new one.

Through all this bewildering maze of keys and channels great tide
rivers of crystal water continually ebbed and flowed. In them uncounted
millions of fish, from huge silvery tarpon, vampire-like devil-fish,
and ravenous sharks, down to tiny fellows, striped, spotted, or
mottled with every hue of the rainbow, rushed and sported, chased and
being chased, devouring and being devoured, but always affording a
fascinating kaleidoscope of darting forms and flashing colors.

Nor was the bird-life of these Ten Thousand Islands less interesting.
It seemed as though the numbers of the great Wader and Soarer
families collected here were almost as many as the fish on which they
feasted. Whole regiments of stately flamingoes, clad in their pink
hunting-coats, stood solemnly on the mud-flats. Squadrons of snow-white
pelicans sailed in company with fleets of their more soberly plumaged
comrades. Great snowy herons, little white herons, great blue herons,
little blue herons, green herons, and yellow-legged herons mingled
with cranes and curlews on the oyster-bars. Ducks of infinite variety,
together with multitudes of coots and cormorants, floated serenely
on the placid waters. Overhead, clouds of snowy ibises, outlined in
pink by edgings of roseate spoon-bills, rose and fell and glinted in
the bright sunlight. Gannets, gulls, and ospreys hovered above the
fishing-grounds. Bald-headed eagles watched them from the tops of tall
mangroves, ready at a moment's notice to pounce down and rob them of
their prey. Far overhead, black specks against the brilliant blue of
the sky, sailed, on motionless pinions, stately men-of-war hawks or
frigate-birds--most graceful of all the soarers. All these, and many
more, the mere naming of which would fill a chapter, flocked to these
teeming fishing-grounds, and afforded a never-ending source of wonder
and amusement to our young canoemates and their companions.

Still, with all these, besides the unending difficulties of the
navigation to occupy their minds, the end of a week found the boys
heartily tired of mangrove keys and blind channels, and anxious for a
change of scene. It was, therefore, with a feeling of decided relief
that a dark, unbroken line, stretching north and south as far as the
eye could reach, was finally sighted and pronounced to be the pine
woods of the main-land. Approaching it with infinite difficulty on
account of the rapidly shoaling water, they at length discovered a
large stream, the water of which was brackish. It was evidently one of
the numerous waterways draining the vast reservoirs of the 'Glades into
the sea. Here the exploring party was to leave the _Transit_ and take
to the smaller craft, in which they proposed to penetrate the interior.

Again an evening was devoted to writing letters to be sent back by the
schooner, and again all hands were ordered to turn out by daylight.

Lieutenant Carey had decided to send one of the cruisers back, and to
take but one besides the three canoes into the 'Glades. The recent
difficulties of navigation had shown him that a full crew would be
needed to carry the schooner back to deep water, and he also imagined
that the fewer boats the explorers had to force through the 'Glades the
easier they would get along. The Indians, too, would be less suspicious
of a small party than of a large one. Thus he decided to limit the
party to himself and the two boys in the canoes, with Quorum and one
other man in the cruiser, or five in all.

With a breakfast by lamplight, and the final preparations hurried as
much as possible, the sun was just rising when the little fleet shoved
off from the _Transit_, and with flashing paddles entered the mouth of
the dark-looking river, the waters of which, in all probability, the
keels of white men's boats were now to furrow for the first time.

"Good-bye, Mr. Sloe! You want to hurry round to Cape Florida, or we'll
be there first!"

"Good-bye, Quorum! Look out for that woolly scalp of yours!" came from
the schooner.

"Good-bye! Good-luck! Good-bye!" and then the canoes rounded a wooded
point, and were lost to sight of those who watched their first plunge
into the trackless wilderness.




CHAPTER XXIII.

WORTH MEETS A PANTHER.


To find themselves once more in their canoes, and to be gliding over
unknown waters, with new scenes unfolding at every turn, was so
exhilarating to the boys that they started up the river at racing
speed, shouting and laughing as they went. They were about to disappear
from the sight of the others around a bend of the stream when they were
checked by a shout from Lieutenant Carey. As he joined them he said:

"We must keep together, boys, and regulate our speed by that of the
cruiser, for, in case of unforeseen difficulties or dangers, it won't
do for us to be separated. I wouldn't make any more noise than is
necessary either. There is no knowing what the Indians, whose country
we are entering, may take it into their heads to do. While I do not
anticipate any serious trouble from them, I would rather avoid them
as much as possible, and by proceeding quietly we may escape their
notice--at least for the present."

For the first mile or two the river-banks were hidden beneath a dense
growth of mangroves, though above these they could catch occasional
glimpses of the tops of pines and tall palmettoes. The mangroves grew
smaller and thinner, until finally they disappeared entirely, and on
tasting the water over which they floated our voyagers found it to be
fresh and sweet.

"There is no danger of our suffering from thirst on this trip whatever
may happen," said Sumner.

They were close to one of the banks as he spoke, and from it there
suddenly came a rushing sound, followed by the floundering splash of
some huge body in the water, so close at hand that their canoes were
violently rocked by the waves that immediately followed. The suddenness
of the whole proceeding drew a startled cry from Worth.

"What could it have been?" he asked in a low tone, and with a very
white face. "Was it a hippopotamus, do you think?" He had seen the
"hippos" splash into their tank in Central Park.

"Not exactly," laughed Sumner, who, after a slight start, had quickly
regained his composure. "It was a big alligator, and he went so close
under my canoe that I could have touched him with the paddle."

"Suppose he had upset us?"

"There wasn't any danger of that; he was more scared than we were, but
he knew enough to dive clear of us."

"But if he should take it into his head to attack us?"

"He won't, though. Mr. Alligator is a great coward. If he is disturbed
while taking a sun-bath on shore, he makes a blind rush for the water
in spite of all obstacles, but it is only because he is too frightened
to do anything else. Once safely in the water, he is glad enough to
sink quietly to the bottom without seeking the further acquaintance of
his enemies. That has always been my experience with them, but then I
have only known them where they were hunted a good deal. The fellows
where we are going may be bolder, but I have never heard of alligators
being anything but awful cowards."

Partly reassured by this, Worth regarded the next alligator that he saw
with greater composure, and before the day was over he hardly minded
them at all. He certainly had an opportunity of becoming familiar with
them, for they fairly swarmed in the river. Nearly every sand-spit
showed from one to a dozen of them, of all sizes, lying motionless in
the warm sunlight.

Worth declared that some of them were twenty feet long; but Sumner
laughed at him, and said that twelve or thirteen feet at most would
be nearer the mark. In this statement he was supported by Lieutenant
Carey, who said that even a fifteen-foot alligator would be a monster,
and he doubted if one of that length had ever been seen.

Most of the scaly brutes, after finding themselves safely in the water,
would rise to the surface for one more look at the cause of their
fright. In thus rising, they only displayed the tops of their heads,
and as the canoes approached these would imperceptibly sink until only
four black spots, indicating the eyes and nostrils, were visible. Then
these, too, would disappear without leaving the faintest ripple to
mark the place where they had been. Often a quick spurt would take the
canoes to the spot in time for the boys to look down through the clear
water and see the great black body lying motionless on the bottom, or
darting swiftly away towards some safer hiding-place.

Sometimes they saw tiny fellows, brightly marked with yellow, and but
recently hatched, sunning themselves on broad lily-pads. These were
never found in company with their elders, which, Lieutenant Carey said,
was because their papas were too fond of eating them.

When Sumner spoke of alligators' eggs and nests, Worth asked,
innocently, if the mother alligators sat on their eggs like hens.

At the mental picture thus presented Sumner laughed so heartily that
he could hardly wield his paddle, but Lieutenant Carey explained that
an alligator's nest is built of sticks, leaves, and grass, very like
a musk-rat's house. "In the middle of this," he said, "are laid from
twenty to forty thick-shelled, pure white eggs, about the size of the
largest goose-eggs. These are left to be hatched by the heat of the sun
and of the decomposing mass surrounding them. When they break their
shells, the little fellows immediately scramble for the nearest water,
where they are left to care for themselves without a suggestion of
parental guidance or advice. In fact, they are wise enough from the
very first to keep out of the way of their elders, whose only love for
them seems to be that of an epicure for a dainty dish."

"Aren't there crocodiles, too, in Florida?" asked Sumner.

"Yes. Professor Hornaday mentions genuine crocodiles as being found
in Biscayne Bay, on the east coast, where I hope we shall get a look
at them. They are described as differing from alligators in the head,
that of the crocodile being narrower and longer. The snout is sharper
than that of an alligator, and at the end of the lower jaw are two long
canine teeth or tusks that project through holes in the upper lip."

"Him big fighter, too," remarked Quorum from the cruiser. "Him heap mo'
wicked dan de 'gator. De Injun call him 'Allapatta hajo,' an' say hit
mean mad 'gator."

As the party advanced up the stream the current became so much stronger
that the boys began to feel the effects of their steady paddling
against it, and were no longer inclined to shoot ahead of the others.
The foliage of the banks changed with each mile, and by noon the
pines had given place to clumps of palmetto, bay, water-oak, wild
fig, mastic, and other timber. Here and there were grassy glades, in
more than one of which they caught tantalizing glimpses of vanishing
white-tailed deer.

The water began to assume an amber tint, and was so brilliantly clear
that in looking down through it they could see great masses of coral
rocks that often overshadowed the yawning mouths of dark chasms.
Above these, whole meadows of the most beautiful grasses--red, green,
purple, and yellow--streamed and waved with the ceaseless motion of
the current. Schools of bright-hued fish darted through and over
these, and turtles, plumping into the water from stranded logs or sunny
sand-spits, could be seen scuttling away to their hiding-places among
them.

The noontide heat of the sun was intense as the signal for a halt was
given. The boats were turned in towards a bank where a grass-plot,
shaded by a clump of rustling palmettoes, offered a tempting
resting-place.

As they landed, Worth was certain that he saw a flock of turkeys
disappear in a small hammock back of the clearing. With his new-born
hunting instinct strong within him, he seized his gun and crossed the
glade, in the hope of getting a shot. He had practised constantly on
the call given him by his instructor, and now felt competent to deceive
even the most experienced gobbler. Advancing cautiously within cover of
the hammock, and seating himself on a log that was completely concealed
by a screen of bushes, he began to call, "Keouk, keouk, keouk." For ten
minutes or so he repeated the sounds at short intervals without getting
a reply. Suddenly, a slight rustle in the bushes behind him caused
Worth to turn his head. Within a yard of him glared a pair of cruel
green eyes.

With a yell of terror the boy dropped his gun, sprang to his feet,
burst from the bushes, and fled wildly towards camp. Reaching it in
safety, but hatless and breathless, he declared that a tiger had been
crouched, and just about to spring at him.

"Perhaps it was a 'coon," suggested Sumner.

"'Coon, indeed?" cried Worth, hotly. "If you had seen the size of its
eyes, you would have thought it was an elephant!"

"What has become of your gun?" inquired the Lieutenant.

"I haven't the slightest idea," replied the boy; "and I don't care. I
wouldn't face those eyes again for a thousand guns."

Finally, however, he was persuaded to return with Lieutenant Carey and
Sumner, both well armed, and point out the scene of his fright. They
found his hat, the gun, and the log on which he had been sitting. Then
in the soft earth close behind it they also found a double set of huge
panther tracks--one made while cautiously approaching the supposed
turkey, and the other while bounding away in affright at Worth's yell.

"I don't wonder that you were both frightened," said the Lieutenant,
with a smile; "but now that your skill as a turkey-caller is
established, I wouldn't go out on a hunting expedition alone again if I
were you."

"Indeed I won't, sir. I'd rather never see another turkey than risk
being stared at by such a pair of eyes as that panther carries round
with him."




CHAPTER XXIV.

RATTLESNAKES AND RIFLE-SHOTS.


While they were returning through the grassy glade, the Lieutenant,
who was a few steps in advance, suddenly stopped and sprang back. The
boys barely caught a glimpse of a flat, wicked-looking head, from which
a forked tongue was viciously thrusting, and heard a sound like the
whir-r-r-r of an immense locust, when Lieutenant Carey fired, and the
head disappeared in the tall grass.

"It was a snake, wasn't it?" asked Worth.

"Worse than that," replied the Lieutenant. "It was a diamond-back
rattler, the most venomous snake known to this country, and with
another step I should have been on him. I'd rather face your panther
unarmed than to have stepped on that fellow."

"What would you have done if you had met it without a gun in your
hand?" asked Sumner, curiously.

"Run," answered the Lieutenant, laconically, as he grasped the lifeless
body of the snake by the tail, with a view to dragging it into camp.

"But if he had caught and bitten you?"

"He wouldn't have caught me, because, in the first place, he would
have been content to be let alone, and wouldn't have chased me. In the
second place, the rattlesnake is such a sluggish reptile that I could
run faster than he, and could easily have kept out of his way."

"Well, then, what would you do if you were bitten?"

"If it were on an arm or a leg, I should tie my handkerchief above the
wound, and twist it with a bit of stick as tightly as possible, so as
to impede the circulation. Then I should enlarge the wound with my
knife, and, if I could reach it with my mouth, I should suck it for
five minutes, frequently spitting out the blood. After that I should
get to camp as quickly as possible, put a freshly-chewed tobacco
plaster on the wound every ten minutes for the next hour, and at the
same time drink a tumblerful of whiskey or other alcoholic liquor. If
I could do all that, and the fangs had not struck an artery, I should
feel reasonably sure of recovery."

"Suppose they had struck an artery, what would you do?"

"Reconcile myself to death as quickly as possible, for I should
probably be dead inside of three minutes," was the grim reply.

Worth shuddered as he gazed at the scaly body that, marked with
black and yellow diamonds, trailed for more than five feet behind
the Lieutenant, and remarked that the sooner they got away from the
haunts of panthers and rattlesnakes, and back among the good-natured
alligators, the better he should like it.

"I shouldn't think Indians would care to live in such a rattlesnaky
country," he added.

"They don't mind them," laughed the Lieutenant. "Their keen eyesight
generally enables them to discover a snake as soon as he sees them.
Then, too, they have an infallible antidote for snake bite, the secret
of which they refuse to divulge to white men."

"How many rattles has this fellow?" asked Sumner.

"Only seven," answered Lieutenant Carey, counting them.

"Then he was a young fellow. I thought from his size that he must be
pretty old, and would have twelve or thirteen rattles and a button at
least."

"The number of rattles does not indicate a snake's age," said the
Lieutenant, smiling. "They get broken off, as do long finger-nails. I
have seen very large snakes with fewer rattles than others that were
smaller and evidently younger."

While they were eating lunch Quorum skinned the snake, rubbed the
beautiful skin thoroughly with fine salt, and rolled it into a compact
bundle, in which condition it would keep for a long time.

After lunch and the hour's rest that followed it the little fleet was
again got under way, and proceeded up the swift river. About the middle
of the afternoon they entered the broad belt of cypress timber that
borders the Everglades on the west. Here the serried ranks of tall
trees, stretching away as far as the eye could reach, held out their
long moss-draped arms until they met overhead, and formed a dim archway
for the passage of the rushing current. The water flowed with strange
gurglings against the gray trunks, and the whole scene was one of such
weird solitude, that on entering it the explorers shivered as with a
chill. Through the semi-twilight fluffy night herons flitted like gray
shadows, and the harsh scream of an occasional water-fowl, startled
by the dip of paddles, echoed through the gloomy forest like a cry of
human distress.

The atmosphere of the place was so depressing that no one spoke, but
each bent to his paddle or oars with redoubled energy, the quicker to
escape into the sunshine that they knew must lie somewhere beyond it.

Quorum, who had been sitting in the stern of the cruiser while the
sailor rowed, was finally made so nervous by his uncanny surroundings
that he begged his companion to change places with him. He wished to
row that his thoughts might be occupied with the hard work. The sailor
complied, though laughing at the negro's fears as he did so. While
Quorum was working with desperate energy to catch up with the other
boats, there came an incident of so startling a nature that in relating
it afterwards he said: "I tell yo, sah, de ole niggah so skeer dat him
come de neares' in he life to tu'nin' plumb white!"

It was a volley of rifle-shots that flashed and roared from the forest
on the right bank of the river like thunder from a clear sky. A second
volley followed almost immediately, and then succeeded such a din of
yells, whoops, and howlings as would have dismayed the stoutest heart.

For an instant each one of the explorers imagined himself to be the
sole survivor of a wholesale massacre, and the surprise of the volleys
was fully equalled by that of seeing his companions still alive.

[Illustration: "A VOLLEY OF RIFLE-SHOTS FLASHED AND ROARED FROM THE
FOREST."]

While the echoes of the first volley were still reverberating through
the dim arches of the forest, Quorum whirled the cruiser around as on
a pivot, and despite his companion's remonstrances, started her down
the river with a rush. The canoemen sat for a couple of seconds with
uplifted paddles as though paralyzed, and in that space of time the
powerful current did for them what Quorum had done for the cruiser.
There seemed nothing to do but to fly from those crashing rifles and
demoniac yells. So fly they did, paddling furiously, and casting
fearful glances over their shoulders to note if they were pursued. It
must be stated, however, that the Lieutenant tried repeatedly to rally
the fugitives, and when he found this to be impossible, he held his
own canoe in check until certain that no immediate pursuit was being
undertaken.

It was nearly sunset when he overtook the others at a place beyond the
lower edge of the cypress belt, where they had halted to wait for him.
He found them still badly demoralized, and ready to continue their
flight at the first intimation of further danger.

"Well, boys," he cried, cheerily, as his canoe swept down beside them,
"I suppose we might as well call this the end of our day's work, and go
into camp."

"Camp?" almost gasped Worth. "You don't mean, sir, that you propose to
go into camp while the whole country is simply swarming with savage
Indians?"

"I certainly do," replied the Lieutenant. "We shall be safer in
camp, where we can work together, than on the river, where we must
necessarily be separated, especially in the dark. Moreover, I don't
believe we shall be molested here. The mere fact that they have not
pursued us so far is, to my mind, an indication that they don't intend
to. Indeed, boys, in thinking over this matter, I am inclined to
believe that the Indians, or whoever fired those shots, for I didn't
see a human being, only intended to frighten us, in the hope that we
would give up our undertaking. I believe that the cartridges they fired
were blanks. Certainly some of us would have been hit if they had been
loaded. I cannot remember seeing a bullet strike the water or anywhere
else; can you?"

No; none of them had noticed anything of the kind.

"That they have not pursued us is another indication that they do not
desire our lives," continued the Lieutenant. "Besides all this, the
Seminoles are fully aware of the consequences to themselves in case
they should kill a white man, and I have no idea that they desire a
war or anything like it. Thus I say that they only meant to frighten
us, and I must acknowledge that they succeeded. I, for one, was never
more startled and scared in my life. Now I propose that we camp here,
without lighting a fire to betray our presence, or let them know that
we have stopped running, until towards morning. Then I intend to try
the passage of that cypress swamp again."




CHAPTER XXV.

WORTH'S LONELY NIGHT-WATCH.


Lieutenant Carey's remarks were received by his companions with
considerable incredulity. None of them had ever been under fire before,
and it was hard to realize that the deafening volleys that had roared
at them from the cypress forest had not been fired with deadly intent.
To be sure, neither they, nor even their boats, had been hit; but that
might as easily be attributed to poor marksmanship as to good intention
on the part of the Indians. Of course, they did not doubt for an
instant that those who had fired from that well-concealed ambush were
Indians. Who else occupied that country, or who else would have done
such a thing? Had not Rust Norris given the Indians false information
concerning the objects of the expedition, and roused them to anger
against it? Even if this first attack had only been intended for a
scare, would a second prove equally harmless? What possible chance
had their little band of making its way through the trackless leagues
between there and the eastern coast, if the four hundred or so of
Seminoles occupying the country had determined to prevent them? None at
all, of course.

On the other hand, as Lieutenant Carey very justly urged, the Indians
could not afford to go to war with the whites. Besides, did the way
ahead of them present any greater difficulties than that they had so
recently traversed? What could they do with their frail boats, even
if they should return to the open waters of the Gulf? Could they hope
to reach Key West in them? Then, too, how humiliating it would be to
give up their undertaking merely because they had been frightened, and
without having caught a glimpse of their enemies!

Lieutenant Carey declared his purpose of going on alone if the others
refused to accompany him, and Sumner said that, as the son of a naval
officer, he was bound to follow the Lieutenant. Worth said: "Of course,
if you go, Sumner, I must go with you; but I'm awfully frightened all
the same."

The sailor said that he had no thought of disobeying the Lieutenant's
orders, and only deserted him as he did in the cypress swamp because
Quorum was at the oars, and carried him off against his will.

Quorum said: "Ef Marse Summer an' Marse Worf gwine fight dem Injuns,
ob co'se de ole man gwine erlong to pertec' 'em. Dem chillun can't be
'lowed ter go prospeckin' in de wilderness wifout Quor'm ter look affer
'em, an' holp do de fightin' as well as de cookin'."

All this discussion took place after the canoes had been hauled from
the water and concealed in a clump of bushes, and while coffee was
being prepared over the alcohol lamps, which gave out great heat with
little light. They gathered closely about their little stoves and
talked in low tones, while the night shadows settled down and shut out
the surrounding landscape. After eating a hearty meal, which showed
their appetites to be in nowise impaired by their recent fright, and
providing a supply of coffee for the morning, they rolled up in their
blankets and lay down for a few hours' sleep on the bare ground. That
is, all but Worth lay down. He, wrapping his blanket about him, and
sitting with his gun across his knees, prepared to keep the first
hour's watch. He was given this first hour because he was the youngest,
and he was to wake Sumner when it had expired. Sumner was to rouse
Quorum, he the sailor, and he the Lieutenant, who was to stand the last
watch and decide upon the time for starting.

To be sitting there alone, surrounded by the unseen terrors of a
Southern wilderness, was a novel and weird experience for Worth.
He could hear the eddying and gurgling of the river, with frequent
splashes that marked the nocturnal activity of its animal life.
Innumerable insects filled the air about him with shrill sounds, and
deep-voiced frogs kept up a ceaseless din from the adjacent swamps.
Frequent vibratory bellowings, exactly like those of an enraged bull,
and certain flounderings in the water, attested the wakefulness of his
newly-made alligator acquaintances. The forest rang with the tiresomely
irritating notes of the chuck-wills-widows and the solemn warnings of
the great hoot owls.

Every now and then he was startled by the agonized cries of some
unfortunate bird seized and dragged from its resting-place by a 'coon
or other predatory animal. These, loud and shrill at first, gradually
became weaker, until hushed into a lifeless silence. His blood chilled
at the distant howl of wolves, or the human-like cry of a panther, and
it required all the boy's strength of mind to refrain from arousing his
comrades long before the expiration of that interminable hour.

Only a frequent reaching out of the hand and touching Sumner, who lay
close beside him, gave him courage to maintain his solitary vigil. His
mind was so actively occupied by what he heard, and by listening for
what he dreaded still more to hear--the dip of paddles or other sounds
indicating the approach of human enemies, that he had not the slightest
inclination to sleep. He never was more wide awake in his life, with
all his senses more keenly alert, than during that hour. He wondered
if, with all those uncanny sounds ringing in his ears, he should dare
even to close his eyes when his turn for sleeping came. He kept track
of the time by occasionally striking a match, and looking at his watch
beneath the sheltering folds of his blanket.

When the time came to waken Sumner, he hated to do so; but realizing
that his own strength for the ensuing day depended upon his sleeping
that night, he finally laid his hand gently on his comrade's forehead.
From long training in being aroused at unseemly hours, Sumner sat up,
wide awake, in an instant. The boys exchanged a few whispered words,
and then Worth lay down. He closed his eyes, determined to try and
sleep, though without the least idea of being able to do so.

When he next opened them Lieutenant Carey was bending over him, and
saying that it was three o'clock in the morning. It seemed impossible
that he could have been asleep for hours, and as the boy sat up rubbing
his eyes, he was certain that the Lieutenant must have made some
mistake.

In spite of the darkness, which was still as intense as ever, the
boats had been almost noiselessly got into the water, and Quorum had
heated the coffee made the night before. A cup of this, hot and strong,
roused the boy into a full wakefulness, and fifteen minutes later he
was seated in his canoe, prepared once more to undertake the passage of
the dreaded cypress belt. The Lieutenant led the way, Sumner and Worth,
keeping as close together as possible, followed, and the cruiser, with
muffled oars, brought up the rear.

If the cypress forest into which they almost immediately plunged had
seemed weird and gloomy by daylight, how infinitely more so was it in
the pitchy darkness by which it was now enshrouded! Still, the black
walls of tree-trunks rising on each side could be distinguished from
the surface of the river, and thus the voyagers were enabled to keep
in the channel. The air was motionless, and heavy with dampness and
the rank odors of decaying vegetation. The rush of waters, the plash
of their paddles, and the unaccountable night sounds of the drenched
forest, rang out with startling distinctness. They proceeded with the
utmost caution, and uttered no word; but it seemed as though their
progress must be apparent to any ear within a mile of them.

For two hours they worked steadily and without a pause. They felt that
they must have passed the scene of their previous evening's adventure.
They were certain of this when at length the cypresses began to grow
smaller; and their branches no longer meeting overhead, a faint light
began to show itself in the lane of sky thus disclosed. Now they knew
that they must be approaching the confines of the belt, and that the
open 'Glades must be close at hand. They breathed more freely than they
had for hours, and with each foot of progress their spirits became
lightened.

The stream which they were following began to branch off in various
directions, and the strength of its current was sensibly diminished.
By the time the light was sufficient for them to discern clearly
surrounding objects, the cypress belt was behind them, and the
limitless expanse of the open 'Glades stretched away in their front.
On the very edge of the cypress forest was a tiny hammock surmounting
a slight elevation of solid ground. As the little fleet was passing
this, its several crews were beginning to exchange a few words of
conversation for the first time since leaving their camp.

Suddenly their voices were hushed by something almost as startling as
the rifle-shots of the previous evening. This time it was the sound of
a loud voice, evidently that of a white man, not more than a few rods
from them, calling:

"Come, you fellows, wake up! Here it is daylight, and no fire started
yet."

The startled canoemen looked at each other wonderingly, and Sumner
was about to utter a shout that would betray their presence when a
warning sign from Lieutenant Carey restrained him. Beckoning them to
follow him quietly, the Lieutenant led the way past the hammock from
which the voice had issued, and into a thick clump of tall sawgrass,
by which they were effectually concealed. Bidding them remain there
until his return, and on no account betray their presence by sound or
movement, he left them, and cautiously guided his canoe back to the
hammock. Stepping lightly from it as it touched the land, he made his
way quietly through the trees and bushes composing the hammock until,
without being seen or heard, he could command a view of an open space
in its centre.

About the smouldering ashes of a camp-fire ten rough-looking
characters, whom he at once recognized as South Florida cowboys, were
sitting up, yawning and rubbing their eyes into wakefulness, or lay
still stretched on the ground enveloped in the blankets that formed
their beds.

As there was but little danger of their discovering him, the Lieutenant
waited where he was, to learn something of their character from their
conversation, before either showing himself or retiring without
disclosing his presence.

[Illustration: "ROUGH-LOOKING CHARACTERS, WHOM HE AT ONCE RECOGNIZED AS
SOUTH FLORIDA COWBOYS."]




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE FLORIDA EVERGLADES.


Presently a man who was rebuilding the fire straightened up, and
addressing one of the others, said:

"We're going to get out o' here to-day, ain't we, Bill?"

"Yes, you bet we are," was the answer. "We hain't got nothing more to
stay yere in the swamps for, onless you think they might make another
try for it, which I don't they will."

"Not much they won't, after the way they skedaddled when we-uns began
to yell. Hi! how they did cut down-stream! I'll bet they hain't stopped
yit. They must ha' reckoned the hull Seminole nation was layin' fur
'em. Ho! ho! ho! ha! ha! ha! Hit was the slickest job I ever did see!"

"You don't reckin they'll hanker arter wisitin' the 'Glades agin in a
hurry, then?" asked another voice.

"Hanker fur the 'Glades? Not muchy, they won't. Why, they won't tetch
foot to the main-land of the State of Fluridy again, not if they can
holp it. Leastways, not so long as they's a Injun left in hit. Hit's
been a hard trip and a mean job for us fellers, but hit'll pay. The
report thet ar Leftenant'll make when he gits home'll do mo' to'd
gittin' the Seminoles moved outen the kentry than ennything that's
happened sence the Fluridy wah. Now mosey round lively, boys. Let's
have a b'ilin' o' coffee, an' light outen hyar."

Lieutenant Carey had heard all that he cared to, and, without betraying
his presence to the cowboys, he softly retraced his steps to where the
canoe lay, and a minute later rejoined his party. Only telling them
that the sooner they put a respectable distance between themselves and
that place the better, he led the way into the main stream, that still
flowed with considerable force through the grass beds, and turned in
the direction of its source. Not until they had gone a good two miles
did he pause, and then there were several reasons for calling a halt.

One reason was that they were far enough beyond the reach of the
cowboys to defy discovery, and he wished to tell his companions what he
had overheard. Another was that the sun was rising, and it was time for
breakfast; and a third was that their watery highway having come to an
end, it was necessary to decide upon their future course.

A small stove was carried in the cruiser, and as there was now nothing
but water, with grass growing in it, about them, it was brought into
service. The canoes gathered closely around the larger craft, and while
Quorum prepared breakfast, the Lieutenant related his recent adventure.
In conclusion he said: "So you see, boys, our Indians turned out to be
white men, and the shooting was only intended to scare us, after all."

"But I don't understand how they knew we were coming, or what they
wanted to frighten us for, anyway," said Sumner, wearing a very puzzled
expression.

"Neither did I at first," replied Lieutenant Carey; "but I remember
now that a gentleman in Key West said the Florida cattlemen would be
greatly put out on learning of my proposed expedition. He said that
they were using every means, foul and fair, to have the Indians removed
from the State, and that they would be bitterly opposed to having the
Everglades set apart as a permanent reservation. He advised me to look
out for them, and I laughed at him. Now I realize that some one must
have sent the news to them, and they got up this party to head us off
in such a way that the blame would be placed upon the Indians. Yes, it
is clear enough now; but it was a bit of a puzzle at first."

"Well," said Worth, "it is a great relief to know that they were not
Indians, and that we are safely past them, with no danger of their
following us."

"It certainly is," replied the Lieutenant. "Though it will be a greater
one to me really to meet Indians, as we must sooner or later, and have
them treat us decently, or rather leave us alone."

Here Quorum interrupted the conversation with the announcement
of, "Breakfus, sah." The amount of cooking that he had managed to
accomplish with that one-lidded stove was wonderful. Besides coffee,
he had prepared a great smoking pot of oatmeal, and a dish of crisply
fried bacon to be eaten with their hardtack; while these things were
disappearing, he prepared and fried a panful of flapjacks that were as
light and delicate as though cooked by a ten-thousand-dollar _chef_ on
the most modern of ranges. Out-of-door camp cookery deserves to rank as
one of the exact sciences, and Quorum as one of its masters.

The old negro found perfect happiness in watching the relish with which
his deftly prepared food was eaten, and his whole body expressed a
smiling satisfaction at the words of praise lavished upon his skill.
While Quorum was eating his own breakfast and the sailor was washing
and stowing the dishes, the others stood up to take observations.

The main stream came to an end where they were, and from it a dozen
narrow channels, filled with flags and lily-pads, or "bonnets," as
they are called in Florida, radiated in as many directions. As far as
the eye could reach, and infinitely farther, in front of them and on
both sides, stretched a vast plain of coarse brown grass, rising to a
height of several feet, and growing in a foot or two of limpid water.
Innumerable channels of deeper water, marked by the vivid green of
their peculiar vegetation, crossed and recrossed each other in every
direction, and formed a bewildering net-work. The limitless brown level
was dotted here and there with heavily timbered islands of all sizes,
from a few rods to many acres in extent. Near at hand these were of a
bright green, in the middle distance they were of a rich purple hue,
and on the far horizon a misty blue. The highest of these islands,
as well as the largest one visible, rose on the very limit of their
vision, in the north-east, and as it formed a conspicuous landmark,
they decided to lay a course for it. Accordingly, in single file, with
the _Hu-la-lah_ leading and "de _Punkin Seed_" bringing up the rear,
the little fleet entered the narrow path that seemed to lead in that
direction, and the journey was resumed.

The clearness of the water in the Everglades is accounted for by the
fact that it flows above a bottom of coralline rock, and is always
in motion. In it stagnation is unknown; and though it is everywhere
crowded with plant life, it is as sweet and pure as that of a spring.
Another curious fact about the Everglades which is generally unknown
is that within their limits but few mosquitoes are found. During the
summer months, when all residents on the coast of southern Florida,
even the light-keepers away out on the reef, miles from land, are
driven nearly crazy by these pests, the Seminoles, who retire to the
Everglades to escape them, are rarely annoyed. The chief insect pests
of the 'Glades are the midges, or stinging gnats, that swarm for an
hour or so at sunset and sunrise. Against these the Indians protect
themselves by smudges and by nettings of cheese-cloth.

From the difficulties of navigation experienced during this their
first day in the 'Glades, our explorers realized that in striving to
journey across their width they had undertaken a most arduous task.
The channels that they attempted to follow seemed to lead in every
direction but the right one. They were generally so narrow and choked
with bonnets that paddling or rowing was impossible, and the boats must
be forced ahead by poling. Every now and then, too, the shallow waters
sank to an unknown depth that no pole could fathom. In such a case,
if one attempted to pull his canoe along by grasping the tough grass
stalks on either side of him, he was rewarded by a painful cut that
often penetrated to the bone. It did not require many sad experiences
of this kind to teach the boys that sawgrass is not to be handled
with impunity. It has a triangular blade, provided with minutely
serrated edges that, green or dry, cut like razors. While it ordinarily
attains a height of but four or five feet, the great Everglade lake,
Okeechobee, is surrounded by a barrier of "big sawgrass" that is
wellnigh impenetrable to man or beast. Even the scaly-hided alligators
shun it. This big sawgrass attains the thickness of a cornstalk, with a
height of ten or twelve feet, is closely matted, and its cutting edges
are possessed of the keenness of Oriental scimitars.

Sometimes the narrow channels along which our canoemates poled with
such difficulty opened into broad clear spaces, where sailing was
possible for a mile or so. Full as often the channels ended abruptly
in the grass, when the only thing to do was to get overboard in water
waist-deep, and push the boats through it.

The sun poured down with an intolerable glare, but its heat was
tempered by the strong, fresh breeze that blows every day and all day
over the 'Glades with the utmost regularity.

As they slowly drew near the island for which they were steering, it
gradually assumed a conical shape and the symmetrical proportions of a
pyramid. Late in the afternoon, while they were still about a mile from
it, a dense volume of smoke suddenly arose from its extreme summit.
This as suddenly disappeared, and then reappeared again at intervals of
a second.

"I wonder if it can be a volcano?" queried Worth, as they gazed
curiously at this phenomenon.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A PREHISTORIC EVERGLADE MOUND.


The whole party had come to a halt on first seeing the mysterious
smoke, and now, with their boats grouped close together, they watched
it curiously. Its several puffs did not last more than a minute, and
then it was seen no more. Nobody but Worth mentioned volcanoes, and
his suggestion caused a general smile. Quorum uttered the single word,
"Injuns," and Lieutenant Carey agreed with him. He said:

"Such a smoke as that must result from human agency, and as I do not
believe there is a white man besides ourselves within the limits of
the 'Glades, it is probably the work of Indians, and is doubtless a
signal of some kind, referring to our presence. I hope it is, for one
of the objects of my mission being to reassure the Everglade Indians of
the kindly intentions of the Government towards them, I shall be glad
to meet them as quickly as possible. Let us go on, then, and have our
first interview with them by daylight."

Half an hour later the canoes reached the island, close to which was
a wide channel of open water that apparently extended wholly around
it. So dense was its encircling growth of custard-apple and cocoa-plum
bushes, that not until they had cut a passage through these could they
reach the dry land behind them.

Anxious to discover the occupants of the island before darkness should
set in, the Lieutenant, taking Sumner and the sailor with him, and
leaving Worth and Quorum to guard the boats, set out for the mound,
which, rising to a height of fifty or sixty feet, seemed to occupy the
centre of the island.

Besides being desirous of meeting with Indians, Lieutenant Carey was
most curious concerning the formation of this strange mound. Until
he had seen the smoke rising from its summit, he had believed it to
be merely a growth of tall forest trees surrounded by lesser trees
and bushes that grew smaller as they neared the water. This is a
common feature of that level Southern country, where the outer lines
of vegetation are stunted by the constant high winds. Behind their
protection, the inner circles of trees rise higher and higher until
they attain a maximum size, and present an appearance of hills and
mounds that proves most deceptive to strangers. The character of the
smoke rising from the summit of this one had proved it to be something
more than one of these ordinary tree mounds. Consequently the explorers
were not surprised, after making their toilsome way through a forest
of trees bound together with luxuriant vines, and brilliant with the
blossoms of flowering air-plants, to find a veritable hill of earth
rising before them. The forest encircled it, but ended at its base,
and its sides were clothed only with a low growth of shrubs. They had
hardly begun the ascent when they ran across a narrow but well-worn
path leading to the summit.

On reaching the top they were disappointed to find it as lonely and
unoccupied as the forest through which they had just passed. What they
did find was a small cleared space from which even the grass had been
worn away, and in the centre of which stood a sort of an altar of rough
stones. It was about six feet square by four high, and was built of
the ordinary coralline rock of the 'Glades. From this, or near it,
the smoke must have ascended; but they looked in vain for ashes or
other traces of a recent fire. The appearance of the altar showed that
fires had been built on it; but there was nothing to indicate that one
had burned there within an hour, and the mystery of the smoke became
greater than ever.

If they had only been familiar with the Seminole method of making
signal smokes, they would not have been so puzzled. A bright blaze
of dry grass is smothered for an instant by a thick branch of green
leaves. This is lifted and dropped again as often as the operator
wishes to make a puff of smoke. Then the grass is allowed to burn out,
and the wind, quickly dispersing the light ashes, removes every trace
of the fire.

While disappointed and puzzled at finding no remnants of the fire that
they were certain had recently burned there, nor of those who had
lighted it, the explorers were enchanted with the beauty of the scene
outspread on all sides of them. To the west the sun was sinking in
wonderful glory behind the distant belt of cypress forest. Everywhere
else the brown 'Glades, dotted with blue islands, seamed with the green
threads of interlacing channels, and flashing with bits of open water,
stretched beyond the limits of their vision. Over them hung a tremulous
golden haze in which all objects were magnified and glorified. The
all-pervading silence was only broken by the occasional rush on heavy
pinions of flocks of snow-white ibises home-returning from their
distant fishing-grounds.

"No wonder the Seminoles love this country, and dread the very thought
of leaving it," said Sumner, at length breaking the silence in which
they had gazed on the exquisite scene.

"Yes, no wonder," replied the Lieutenant; "for in all my travels I
don't know that I have ever seen anything more beautiful. But the most
interesting of it all to me," he continued, "is this mound. It is
evidently a structure of human erection, and must be contemporaneous
with the famous earth pyramids of Mexico. Perhaps it was raised by the
same wonderful prehistoric race. I have examined many of the well-known
shell mounds of Florida, including those of Cedar Keys, and from there
at various places down the west coast. I have also seen the great
Turtle Mound on the Atlantic side, and those on the St. John's River;
but all of them were evidently feast mounds, and showed in themselves
the reason for their existence. I have heard of the earth mounds and
ancient canals of the upper Caloosahatchie and Fish-eating Creek, but
I have never heard it even intimated that similar structures might be
looked for in the Everglades. Consequently I regard this one in the
light of an important discovery. It is certainly sufficiently so to
warrant us in spending to-morrow on this island investigating the mound
as thoroughly as our means will allow."

"Doesn't that altar look as though the mound had been used as a place
for offering sacrifices?" asked Sumner.

"No; that altar, as you call it, is evidently of recent construction,
and was probably built by the Indians now inhabiting this country as
a place from which to make signal smokes, or possibly as a sepulchre.
We will try to find out which to-morrow. These mounds were undoubtedly
erected as places easy of defence, and perhaps this one may yield us
some ancient weapons, as the 'kitchen middens,' or feast mounds, of
Cedar Keys have so abundantly. I have seen quantities of celts and
other stone implements taken from them, while the most exquisite quartz
spear-head I ever saw was taken from a Caloosahatchie mound, which from
descriptions must be very similar to this one. Oh yes, we certainly
must spend another day on this island. Now we'd better be going, for it
will soon be dark, and--"

Here the Lieutenant was interrupted by two shots fired in quick
succession from the direction in which they had left Worth and Quorum.

"I am afraid that means trouble of some kind," said Lieutenant Carey,
anxiously, after he had fired two answering shots.

Hurrying down the pathway, which they found led to the water on the
opposite side of the island from that on which they had landed, they
plunged into the forest, and were surprised to notice how dark it had
already grown. Its intricacies were so bewildering and its difficulties
so numerous that it was nearly an hour after they heard the shots
before they came within sound of a voice answering their repeated calls.

At length they reached the place where they had left the boats, and
here they found Worth alone, and so panic-stricken that it was with
difficulty he could answer their eager questions.

"Why had he fired those shots?"

"Where was Quorum?"

"Where were the boats?"

"I fired them to call you back," answered the boy, "and I don't know
where Quorum is nor where the boats are. They were here when I left,
and when I came back they were gone. This was all I found here." With
this Worth pointed to a bag of hardtack that lay on the ground at
his feet. "And I'm afraid poor Quorum has been killed, for I know he
never would have left us. I thought perhaps you were killed too, and
that I was left here all alone, and I've been getting more and more
frightened, until I think I should have gone crazy if you had not come
when you did."

"You poor boy!" said the Lieutenant, soothingly, "I don't wonder that
you were frightened. I should have been myself. But how did you happen
to leave Quorum? and what was he doing when you left him?"

"He was sitting in the cruiser, and I only left him for a minute,
because I heard such a big turkey gobbler right here in the woods close
to us. I thought it would be such a pleasant surprise for you to have
me get him for supper, and I was sure there weren't any panthers or
rattlesnakes here. So I just crept into the bushes to get a shot at
him, and he kept going farther and farther off, and I kept following
him. I didn't see him at all, and after a while I didn't hear him any
more either, so I thought I'd better come back. When I got here, I
couldn't find Quorum or the boats, so I fired my gun as a signal."

"And you haven't seen nor heard anything of Quorum since?" inquired
Lieutenant Carey, looking puzzled and anxious.

"No, I haven't heard a sound nor seen a sign of a living thing,"
answered Worth.

"There can't be any doubt of this being the right place," said the
Lieutenant, reflectively, "for there is where we cut our way through
the bushes."

"And here is the bag of biscuit," added Worth.

"I am not a bit surprised at the disappearance of the canoes," said
Sumner. "I am getting used to that. But to have Quorum and the cruiser
go too is certainly very strange."

"And leaves us in a most awkward predicament," added the Lieutenant.
"If Quorum had only gone with one boat, we might expect to see him back
at any moment; but to have them all go looks very suspicious. I greatly
fear the poor fellow has been the victim of some foul play. However, it
is too dark now to do anything but light a fire and prepare to pass the
night where we are as well as we can under the circumstances."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

WHAT BECAME OF QUORUM AND THE CANOES.


When Worth and Quorum were left alone they sat for some time discussing
the mystery of the smoke, and whether or not they had better begin
unloading the boats and preparing camp. Worth advised against this.
He hoped the others would discover a better camping-place than that.
He also thought that perhaps they might return with news that would
necessitate their leaving the island and in a hurry. As he complained
of being very hungry, Quorum got out the biscuit-bag, and they each
took a hardtack from it. It was while they were eating these that
the sound of a loud "gobble, gobble, gobble," came from the bushes,
apparently but a few rods from where they sat.

Worth's hunting instinct was at once aroused, and slipping a couple of
shells into his gun, he whispered: "You sit still, Quorum, and I'll
have that fellow in a minute. My! but he must be a big one!"

Then he stepped noiselessly to the shore, and silently disappeared
among the trees. Quorum sat with his back to the water, watching the
spot where his young companion had entered the forest, and listening
eagerly for the expected shot.

All at once a slight jar of the boat caused him to start; but before
he could turn his head it was enveloped in a thick fold of cloth that
effectually prevented his seeing or calling out. In a few seconds two
active forms had bound his hands and feet, and slid him into the bottom
of the boat, where he lay blinded, helpless, and nearly smothered. One
of his captors picked up the biscuit-bag from which the prisoner had
just been eating, and tossed it ashore with a low laugh.

In the mean time two others had been unfastening the canoes, and
dragging them cautiously backward through the opening cut in the bushes
to the channel, where lay the craft in which they had come. It was a
large and well-shaped cypress dugout, capable of holding a dozen men.
In less than three minutes from the time of Quorum's capture it was
being poled rapidly but silently along through the twilight shadows,
with the stolen boats in tow.

At a point about half a mile from the island these were skilfully
concealed in a clump of tall grasses, and Quorum was bundled into the
dugout. A choking sound from beneath the cloth that enveloped his
head caused one of the strange canoemen to loosen it somewhat, so as
to facilitate the prisoner's breathing. Then, propelled by four pairs
of lusty young arms, the dugout shot away up one of the watery lanes
leading directly into the heart of the 'Glades.

An hour later it was run ashore on one of the numerous islands whose
purple outlines had so charmed the observers from the top of the mound.
Here it was greeted by the barking of dogs and the sound of many
voices. The thongs that bound Quorum's legs were cut, he was lifted to
his feet, and, led by two of his captors, he was made to walk for some
distance. At length he was halted, his wrists were unbound, and the
cloth that enveloped his head was snatched from it.

The bewildered negro was instantly confronted by such a glare of
firelight that for a minute his eyes refused to perform their duty.
As he stood clumsily rubbing them, he heard a titter of laughter and
the subdued sound of talking. As his eyes gradually became accustomed
to the light, he saw, first, a fire directly in front of him, then,
several palmetto huts, and at length a dozen or more Indian men,
besides women and children, grouped in front of the huts, and all
staring at him.

[Illustration: "HIS WRISTS WERE UNBOUND, AND THE CLOTH THAT ENVELOPED
HIS HEAD WAS SNATCHED FROM IT."]

Until that moment he had not known who had made him prisoner, nor
why he had been carried off; and even now the second part of the
question remained as great a mystery as ever. There was no doubt,
however, that, for some purpose or other, he had been captured by a
scouting party of Seminoles, and though Quorum had met individuals of
this tribe while cruising on the reef, he had never visited one of
their camps nor been in their power. He therefore gazed about him with
considerable trepidation, and wondered what was going to be done with
him.

As he did not recognize any of the dusky faces gathered in the
firelight, he was amazed when one of the men, addressing him in broken
English, said:

"How, Quor'm! How! Injun heap glad you come. You hongry? Eat sofkee.
Good, plenty."

At the same time the speaker pointed to a smoking kettle of something
that a squaw had just lifted from the fire and set close to the
negro. A great wooden spoon was thrust into it, and its odor was
most appetizing. Having fasted since early morning, Quorum was very
hungry. Not only this, but under the circumstances he would have
eaten almost anything his entertainers chose to set before him rather
than run the risk of offending them. Therefore, without waiting for
a second invitation, he squatted beside the kettle of sofkee, and
began sampling its contents with the huge spoon. To his surprise, he
had never in his life tasted a more delicious stew. After the first
mouthful, he had no hesitation in eating such a meal as made even the
Indians, among whom a large eater is considered worthy of respect,
regard him with envious admiration.

It is no wonder that Quorum found this Indian food palatable, for the
Seminole squaws are notable cooks, and sofkee is the tribal dish. It
is a stew of venison, turtle, or some other meat, potatoes, corn,
beans, peppers, and almost anything else that is at hand. It is
thickened with coontie starch, and a kettleful of it is always to be
found over one of the village fires, at the disposal of every hungry
comer. The one drawback to its perfect enjoyment, according to a white
man's fastidious taste, is that, besides the sofkee, the wooden spoon
with which it is eaten is equally at the disposal of all comers, and
is in almost constant use. This fact was not known to Quorum at the
time of his introduction to sofkee. If it had been, it would hardly
have lessened his relish of the meal, for Quorum was too wise to be
fastidious.

He was so refreshed by his supper, as well as emboldened by the fact
that no one seemed inclined to harm him, that something of his natural
aggressiveness returned. After laying the sofkee spoon down, he turned
to the Indian who had already spoken to him, and said:

"Why fo' yo' call me Quor'm? I 'ain't hab no 'quaintance wif you."

For answer the Indian only said, "Tobac, you got um, Quor'm?"

"Yes, sah. Tobac? I got er plenty ob him back yonder in de boat wha'
yo' tuk me frum. Why fo' yo' treat a 'spectable colored gen'l'man dish
yer way, anyhow? Wha' yo' mean by playin' sich tricks on him, an' on de
white mans wha' trabblin' in he comp'ny?"

While speaking the negro had mechanically produced his black pipe, and
instead of answering his questions, the Indian said: "Tobac. You no got
um. Me got um, plenty. You take um, smoke um, bimeby talk heap."

With this he handed a plug of tobacco to the negro, who understood the
action, if he had not fully comprehended the words that accompanied
it. As he cut off a pipeful and carefully crumbled it in his fingers,
he began to think that his position was not such a very unpleasant
one, after all. He only wished he could imagine his fellow explorers
as being half so comfortable as he was at that moment. Realizing from
the Indian's last remark that there would be no talk until after the
smoke, he assumed as comfortable a position as possible, and gazed
curiously about him.

The little village, or camp, of half a dozen huts, was nearly hidden in
the black shadows of the forest trees that surrounded it on all sides.
Its huts were built of poles, supporting roofs of palmetto thatch, and
were open at the sides. Each was provided with a raised floor of split
poles, thickly covered with skins, and every hut contained one or more
cheese-cloth sleeping canopies. Each hut had also several rifles and
other hunting gear hanging in it, while canoe-masts, sails, paddles,
and push poles leaned against its walls.

The men, who lay smoking on the furs inside the huts, or stretched in
comfortable attitudes on the ground outside, were tall, clean-limbed,
athletic-looking fellows clad in turbans of bright colors, gay calico
shirts, and moccasins of deerskin; the women wore immense necklaces
of beads, calico jackets, and long skirts, but were barefooted and
bareheaded; and the children were clad precisely like their elders,
with the exception of the turbans, which are denied to the boys and
young men until they reach the age of warriors. Besides the Indians,
Quorum saw that the camp was occupied by numbers of fowls, dogs,
and small black pigs, that roamed through it at will. Everybody and
everything in it, animals as well as humans, looked contented and well
fed.

At length Quorum's smoke was finished, and he knocked the ashes from
his pipe. As if this were a signal, the Indian men laid aside their
pipes, and it was evident that the time for talking had arrived.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A VERY SERIOUS PREDICAMENT.


The four explorers left on the mound island were very far from spending
so pleasant an evening as that enjoyed by Quorum in the Seminole
village. They were full of anxiety both as to his fate and their own.
In some respects their position was not so bad as if they had been cast
away on a desert island in the ocean, while in others it was worse.
In the latter case they might hope to sight and signal some passing
vessel, but here there was no chance for anything of that kind. At the
best, they would not see anything except Indian canoes, and, under the
circumstances, they could have little hope of obtaining aid from these.

Their revolvers were still loaded, and they had between them half a
dozen cartridges for their guns, but thus far they had discovered no
traces of game on the island. They would not lack for fresh-water, but
with only a single bag of biscuit, the food question was likely to
become a serious one within a short time. They had no knowledge of
any white settlements within less than a hundred miles of where they
were. These could only be reached by wading and swimming through the
trackless 'Glades and bewildering cypress swamps. Undoubtedly some of
the 'Glade islands were occupied by Indians, but they might explore
as many of these as their strength would permit them to reach without
finding one thus inhabited. Their situation was certainly a most
perplexing one, and as they sat around a fire, eating a scanty supper
of hardtack and discussing their prospects, these appeared gloomy in
the extreme.

Still, the Lieutenant well knew that he must, if possible, keep up the
spirits of his little party, and that the worst thing they could do was
to take a hopeless view of the situation. So he said:

"Well, boys, though we seem to be in a nasty predicament, it might be
a great deal worse, and we have still many things to be thankful for.
I once drifted for a week in an open boat in the middle of the South
Pacific. There were seven of us, and only one man of the party had the
faith and courage to continue cheerful and hopeful through it all. On
the very day that we swallowed our last drop of water, and while the
rest of us were lying despairingly in the bottom of the boat, he sat
up on watch, and finally discovered the trading schooner that picked us
up."

"I," said Sumner, "do not feel nearly so badly now as I did when
drifting out to sea in the dark on that wretched raft a couple of weeks
ago. I expected every minute to be washed off and be snapped up by
sharks; but, after all, the loneliness was the worst part of it."

"Right you are, Mr. Sumner," said the sailor. "A man can stand a heap
of suffering along with others, that would throw him on his beam ends
in no time if he was compelled to navigate by himself. I mind one
time that I was lost in a fog, in a dory, on the Grand Banks. As we
had grub and water in the boat, I didn't worry much, till my dorymate
fell overboard and got drownded. The weight of his 'ilers and rubber
boots sunk him like a shot. After that I wellnigh went crazy with the
loneliness. I couldn't seem to eat or drink; and though I was picked
up the very next day, that one night of loneliness seemed like a year
of torment. Oh yes, sir, men can save themselves in company, when they
won't lift a hand if left alone."

"I don't think I was ever in a worse fix than this one," remarked
Worth, dolefully.

"Probably not, my boy," said the Lieutenant, cheerily. "You are young
yet, and have just made a start on your career of adventure. All things
must have a beginning, you know. The next time you find yourself in an
unpleasant situation, you will take great satisfaction in looking back
and describing this one as having been much worse. No adventure worth
the telling can be had without a certain degree of mental or physical
suffering, and the more of this that is endured the greater the
satisfaction in looking back on it. Now that we can do nothing before
daylight, I propose that we make ourselves as comfortable as possible,
and sleep as soundly as possible. By so doing we shall be able to
face our situation with renewed strength and courage in the morning.
To-morrow we will explore the island, discover its resources, and
perhaps find traces of Quorum and the boats. Failing in this, I propose
that we construct as good a raft as we can with the means at hand. With
it to carry our guns, besides affording us some support, we will make
our way back to the place where those cowboys were camped this morning.
From there we can follow their trail until we overtake them, or reach
some settlement."

Cheered by having a definite plan of operations thus outlined, all
hands set to work to gather such materials for bedding as they could
find in the darkness, and an hour later the little camp was buried in
profound slumber.

To their breakfast of hardtack the following morning Sumner added a
hatful of cocoa-plums that he had gathered while the others still
slept. Soon after sunrise they divided into two parties--the Lieutenant
and Worth forming one, and Sumner and the sailor the other--and set out
in opposite directions to make their way around the island.

"I don't want any one to fire a gun except in case of absolute
necessity," said Lieutenant Carey. "And if a shot is heard from either
party, the others will at once hasten in that direction."

"Can't we even shoot my gobbler if we meet him?" queried Worth.

"No, I think not," replied the Lieutenant, with a smile; "that is,
unless he shows fight, for I expect your gobbler would turn out to be a
turkey without feathers, and standing about six feet high. I mean," he
added, as Worth's puzzled face showed that he did not understand, "that
the call by which you were led away from Quorum was, in all likelihood,
uttered by an Indian for that very purpose."

So difficult was their progress through the luxuriant and
densely-matted undergrowth of that Everglade isle that, though it was
not more than a couple of miles in circumference, it was nearly noon
before the two parties again met. They had discovered nothing except
that the island was uninhabited, and they were its sole occupants. Nor
had they seen anything that would give a clew to the fate that had
overtaken poor Quorum.

"While I don't for a moment suppose that the fellow has deserted,"
said the Lieutenant, "I wish, with all my heart, that we knew what had
become of him."

"Indeed, he has not deserted," replied Sumner, warmly. "I'll answer for
Quorum as I would for myself. Wherever he is, he will come back to us
if he gets half a chance."

"Yes, I believe he will; and I only hope he may get the chance. Now let
us go to the top of the mound for one more comprehensive look at our
surroundings, and then we will begin our preparations for leaving the
island."

From the summit of the mound the same tranquil scene on which
Lieutenant Carey and Sumner had gazed with such pleasure the evening
before, only more widely extended, greeted their eyes. It was as devoid
of human life now as then, and its present beauties failed to interest
them.

"I said that we would probably spend to-day here," remarked the
Lieutenant. "But I must confess that my present interest in this mound
lies in getting away from it as quickly as possible. I have no longer
the least desire to investigate its mysteries, and so let us descend to
our more important work."

Returning to their landing-place, and eating a most unsatisfactory
lunch of hardtack, they began to search for materials from which to
build their raft. These were hard to find, and still harder to prepare
for the required purpose. There was plenty of timber, but it was
green, and they had no weapons with which to attack it except their
sheath-knives. Neither had they any nails nor ropes, and their lashings
must be made of vines.

After a whole afternoon of diligent labor, a nondescript affair of
different lengths and jagged ends lay on the ground at the water's edge
ready for launching. With infinite difficulty and pains they got it
into the water, only to have the mortification of seeing it immediately
sink.

"Well, boys," said the Lieutenant, in a voice that trembled in spite of
his effort to make it sound cheerful, "that raft is a decided failure.
Unless we can find some wood better suited to our purpose, I am afraid
we must give up the idea altogether, and try to reach the cypress belt
without any such aid."

"If we only had a few sticks of the timber that is so plenty along the
reef!" said Sumner, thinking of his own previous efforts in the raft
line.

"We might as well wish for our canoes, and done with it," said Worth,
despondently.

Just then they thought they heard a far-away shout in the forest behind
them. Instinctively grasping their guns, they stood in listening
attitudes. It was repeated, this time more distinctly, and they looked
at each other wonderingly.

At the third shout Sumner exclaimed, joyously: "It's Quorum! I know it
is!" He would have plunged into the forest to meet the new-comer, but
the Lieutenant restrained him, saying: "Wait a minute. Let us be sure
that this is not another trap."

A few moments later there was no longer any mistaking the voice, and
their answering shouts guided Quorum, his honest face beaming with joy
and excitement, to the place where they were awaiting him.




CHAPTER XXX.

QUORUM AS AN AMBASSADOR.


It was Quorum, sure enough, not only alive and well, but seemingly in
the best of spirits. Where had he been? Where were the boats? How did
he get back? and where had he come from? These are only samples of the
dozens of questions with which he was plied while shaking hands with
his friends, including the Lieutenant, who was as heartily rejoiced as
the boys at again seeing the faithful fellow.

At one of the questions thus asked him, Quorum's face fell, and he
answered:

"Whar de boats is, honey, I don't know, fer I hain't seen no likeness
ob dem sence las' night 'bout dis time. Whar I is bin, an' what I is
'sperienced, is er long story; but hit's got ter be tole right now,
kase dat's what I hyar fer. What we do nex' depen' on de way you all
take hit when I is done tellin'."

Then they sat down, and forgetful of their hunger, their recent
disappointment with the raft, and even of their unhappy predicament,
the others listened with absorbed interest to Quorum's story.

He described the way in which he had been carried off, and his
reception in the Indian camp.

"They were Indians, then?" interrupted the Lieutenant.

"Yes, sah, shuah 'nough Injuns, an' a powerful sight ob dem--man,
squaw, an' pickaninny, an' dey gib ole Quor'm one ob de fines' suppahs
he ebber eat."

"I wish we had one like it here at this minute!" said Sumner, thus
reminded of his hunger.

"Den we all smoke de peace-pipe, so dey don't hab no fear ob me
declarin' er war on 'em," continued Quorum.

"Them Injuns has got tobacco, then?" queried the sailor, whose smoking
outfit had disappeared with the boats.

"Ob co'se dey is, er plenty," answered Quorum. "An' den me an' de big
chiefs sot down fer what yo' might call a considerashun ob de fac's.
Dey say as what dey can't noways 'low dis hyer experdishun to pass troo
de 'Glades, 'cep' on condishuns."

Told in more intelligible language than that used by Quorum, the
substance of his talk with the Indians was as follows:

They had learned from a white man that the objects of Lieutenant
Carey's expedition were to spy out their land, discover their numbers
and the value of their property, and make preparations for their
removal from that part of the country.

"I hope you told them differently, and explained our real objects,"
said the Lieutenant.

"Yes, sah; I done tell 'em to de full ob my knowingness ob yo' plans.
But seein' as I hain't know nuffin' tall 'bout 'em, maybe I don't make
hit berry cl'ar ter dem igerant sabages; but I done hit as well as I
know how."

The Indians had declared that they should resist any such attempt at an
investigation of their resources and mode of life, and that the party
must turn back from where it now was. If it would do so, its boats
should be restored, and it would be allowed to depart in peace.

The difficulties in the way of accepting this proposition had at once
been seen by Quorum. He had explained that as their small boats were
not fitted to cruise in the open waters of the Gulf, and as their big
boat was already on its way to the east coast, where they were to meet
it, to turn back would be a great hardship.

The Indians had listened gravely to their interpreter's translation
of all that he had to say on the subject, and assented to the force
of his arguments. Then they proposed another plan. It was that if the
whites would give up their arms and trust entirely to them, they would
convey the party and their boats safely across the 'Glades to within a
short distance of the east coast. There they should again receive their
guns, and should be allowed to depart in peace, provided they would
promise not to return.

"Seems to me that is quite a liberal proposition," said the Lieutenant,
after Quorum had succeeded in making it clearly understood. "All we
want is to cross the 'Glades and see the Indians. I would willingly
have paid them to guide us, and now they offer to do so of their own
accord. I can't conceive how you persuaded them to make such an offer,
Quorum. You must be a born diplomat."

"Yes, sah," replied the negro, grinning from ear to ear, "I 'specs I
is." At the same time he had no more idea of what the Lieutenant meant
than if he had talked in Greek.

"How does that plan strike you, boys?" asked Lieutenant Carey, turning
to Sumner and Worth.

"It strikes me as almost too good to be true," answered the former.
"And I'm afraid there's some trick behind it all; but then I don't see
what we can do except say yes to almost any offer they may choose to
make."

"That is so," said the Lieutenant. "Without our boats, and with no
means for making a raft, we are about as helpless as we well can be."

"It seems to me a splendid plan," said Worth, who saw visions of
peaceful nights, and days pleasantly spent in hunting and in visiting
Indian camps.

Although the sailor's opinion had not been asked, he could not help
remarking: "I'm agin trusting an' Injin, sir. Injins and Malays and all
them sort of niggers are notoriously deceitful."

"Hi! Wha' yo' say dere 'bout niggahs, yo' sailorman?" exclaimed Quorum,
in high dudgeon. "Yo' call 'em notorious, eh?"

"Not black ones," answered the sailor, apologetically--"not black ones,
Quorum; but them as is red and yellow."

"Dat's all right, sah, an' I 'cept yo' 'pology. At de same time I is
bankin' on de squar'ness ob dem Injuns who I bin councillin' wif."

"You believe it will be safe to trust them, then?" asked the Lieutenant.

"Yes, sah; yo' kin trus' 'em same like a black man."

"Very well," said Lieutenant Carey; "as I don't see how, in the
present state of affairs, we can do anything else, I will take your
word for their honesty, and accept their conditions; only I will not
promise never to come into the 'Glades again. I will only promise not
to turn directly back from the east coast after they have left us."

"Dat's wha' dey mean, sah. I is berry 'tic'lar on dat pint ob de
controbersy."

"Then we will consider it as settled, and would like to leave here for
a place where there is something to eat as quickly as possible. Where
are your Indian friends?"

"Out dere, sah, in de cooners. Dey say when yo' ready, den I holler
like er squinch-owl, an' brung down all yo' uns' guns an' resolvers de
fustes' t'ing."

"Very well, squinch away then, and here are my pistols. It is certainly
humiliating to be disarmed to please a lot of Indians; but hunger and
necessity are such powerful persuaders that it is best to submit to
them with as good grace as possible."

So Quorum "squinched" in a manner that no self-respecting owl would
have recognized; but which answered the purpose so well that an answer
was immediately heard from the water, over which the evening shadows
were now fast falling.

Directly afterwards a canoe, containing the Indian who had acted as
interpreter during Quorum's council with the chiefs, appeared at the
opening in the bushes. Without stepping ashore, this Indian, whose name
was Ul-we (the tall one), exchanged a few words with Quorum, whereby he
learned that the Seminole conditions were accepted by the white men.
He then bade the negro place the guns and pistols in the canoe and
enter it himself. Then he shoved off, and another canoe, containing two
Indians, made its appearance.

The Lieutenant bade Sumner and Worth step into it first; but the
moment they had done so, it too was shoved off, and another canoe,
also containing two Indians, appeared in its place. This received the
Lieutenant and the sailor. By the time it was poled into the channel
the foremost canoe had disappeared in the darkness, nor was it again
seen.

During their journey both the Lieutenant and Sumner tried to enter into
conversation with the Indians in their respective canoes, but after
a few futile attempts they gave it up. To all their questions they
received the same answer, which was "Un-cah" (Yes), and not another
word could the Indians be persuaded to utter.

[Illustration: "DIRECTLY AFTERWARDS A CANOE APPEARED AT THE OPENING IN
THE BUSHES."]

The Lieutenant consoled himself with the thought that he would be able
to talk to the chiefs through the interpreter; while the boys looked
forward with eager anticipations to seeing the Indian village that
Quorum had described. As for the sailor, Indians and their villages
were matters of indifference to him. What he looked forward to was a
good supper and a pipe of tobacco.

Thus, all of them awaited with impatience their journey's end, and
wished it were light enough for them to see whither they were being
taken.




CHAPTER XXXI.

A CLOSELY GUARDED CAMP.


The darkness, which comes so quickly after sunset in that far Southern
country, with almost no intervening twilight, effectually prevented our
explorers from seeing where they were going. They only knew from the
stars that their general direction was east, or directly into the heart
of the Everglades. They were even unable to study the countenances,
dress, or general appearance of the young Indians who, standing in
the bow and stern of each canoe, drove it forward with unerring
judgment and at a considerable speed by means of long push poles. These
poles were quite slender; but each terminated at its lower end in an
enlargement, formed by fastening a short bit of wood to either side
that prevented it from sinking deeply into the sand or grass roots
against which it was set.

The canoes in which our voyagers were now travelling were as different
from their own dainty craft as one boat can be from another. Nor
did they bear the least resemblance to the bark canoes of Northern
Indians, there being no Southern bark similar to that of the Northern
birch, or suitable for canoe-building. They were simply dugouts, from
twenty to twenty-five feet long by about three feet broad, hollowed
with great skill from huge cypress logs. Their lines were fine, and, as
our friends afterwards discovered, they are capital sailing craft in
any wind, except dead ahead.

When a Seminole decides to build one of these canoes, he first selects
and fells his tree, cutting off a section of the required length, and
free from knots or cracks. The upper surface of this is hewn smooth,
with a slight sheer rise fore and aft. On this smooth surface a plan
of the canoe is carefully outlined with charcoal, and then the outside
is laboriously worked into shape with hatchets. The hollowing out of
the inside is accomplished by fire and hatchets, and, considering
the limited supply of tools at the builders' disposal, the result is
a triumph of marine architecture. Hatchets and knives are the only
tools used in the making of the masts, spars, paddles, push poles, and
spear handles that are needed for the equipment of each canoe. The
ingenious builders also cut and sew their own sails, which they make
of unbleached muslin bought from the trader on Biscayne Bay. Although
they use no keels, centre-boards, nor lee-boards, they manage by
holding their paddles firmly against the side of the canoe and deep in
the water to sail close-hauled, and to keep her up to the wind in a
manner that is truly surprising. The Indians take great pride in their
canoes and value them highly, for, as they are without horses, roads,
or any considerable area of dry land, these are their sole means of
transportation and communication between the different parts of the
vast territory over which they roam.

After travelling several miles, this first voyage of our explorers in
Indian canoes ended at a heavily wooded islet, between the trees of
which they could see the welcome glow of a camp-fire. To their great
delight, as they reached the shore, they found their own canoes and
the cruiser safely moored to it. In spite of their joy at again seeing
these, they were too hungry and too impatient to visit the Indian
village to do more just then than assure themselves that their own
boats were all right. Then they hurried towards the fire.

There was a roomy palmetto hut standing near it; but to their surprise
the firelight disclosed only a single human figure, which, as they drew
near, proved to be that of Quorum. He was hard at work cooking supper,
and only acknowledged their presence with a grin, and the announcement
that it would be ready in a few minutes.

Turning to the hut, they saw that it had been recently erected, and
that it contained their own rolls of bedding, besides the little bags
of toilet articles belonging to Lieutenant Carey and the boys, which
Quorum had thoughtfully taken from the canoes and placed ready for
their use.

"I never realized the luxury of brushes and combs before!" exclaimed
Worth, as he occupied the time before supper with making what was
probably the most elaborate toilet ever seen in the Everglades.

Meanwhile the Lieutenant was questioning Quorum as to the location of
the Indian village, and was disappointed to find the negro as ignorant
on the subject as himself. Quorum thought it must be on some other
island, as this certainly was not the place to which he had been taken
the night before. He said that on arriving there he had found the
canoes and cruiser, the hut built, and the fire lighted. The young
Indian who had brought him had helped carry the things up to the hut,
and also given him some venison and vegetables in exchange for a small
quantity of coffee and sugar. He had remained there until shortly
before the arrival of the others, and Quorum had not noticed when he
disappeared. Before leaving, he had told Quorum that, by the chief's
orders, the white men would remain on that island until the following
evening.

"Oh, we will, will we?" said Lieutenant Carey, whose pride chafed
against receiving orders from an Indian, even if he was a chief.
"With our own boats at hand, I don't see what is to hinder us from
leaving when we please. I wish that chief would hurry up and put in an
appearance. I want to have a few words with him."

He now for the first time realized that the young Indians who had
brought them there had not followed them to the camp, and he stepped
down to the water's edge to see what they were doing. To his dismay he
found that they had not only disappeared, but had taken the canoes and
cruiser with them. Greatly provoked at this, he returned to the camp
in a very unpleasant frame of mind, mentally abusing the Indians, and
regretting that, by accepting their conditions, he had so completely
placed himself in their power. His good-nature was somewhat restored
by the supper, which was most bountiful and well cooked, and by the
soothing pipe smoke that followed it; for among other things, Quorum
had not neglected to bring up a plentiful supply of tobacco.

After supper, as he and the boys lay outstretched on their blankets
within the hut, the open side of which faced the fire, the Lieutenant
acknowledged that their present position was a vast improvement on that
of the night before. The boys agreed with him, though at the same time
they were even more disappointed than he at not finding themselves in
an Indian village. That was one of the things they had most counted on
seeing in the Everglades. Having finally decided to make the best of
their situation, and to obtain the greatest possible amount of comfort
and pleasure from it, they turned in, and slept soundly until morning.

They were so thoroughly tired with their various hardships and labors
of the two preceding days and nights that they slept late, and the sun
had already been up for several hours before they answered the negro's
call to breakfast. He said that though he had been down to the shore
several times after water, he had seen no signs of either canoes or
Indians. Thus to all appearances they were not only the sole occupants
of the island, but of the 'Glades as well.

As they had nothing else to do, the Lieutenant proposed to the boys
that they should explore this new island, and make such discoveries of
other islands and the intervening 'Glades as could be seen from its
shores. They readily agreed to this, and the three set forth. They had
not gone more than a hundred yards from camp when they were suddenly
confronted by a young Indian, armed with a rifle, which he pointed
at them, at the same time making other signs to them to go back. At
first they were greatly startled by his unexpected appearance. Then
the Lieutenant undertook to remonstrate with him, and to explain that
they only wanted to walk harmlessly about and view the landscape, but
all in vain. The stolid-faced young savage either could not or would
not understand. He only shook his head without uttering a word, but
continued to make signs for them to go back.

"This is one of the strangest and most irritating things that I ever
heard of!" exclaimed Lieutenant Carey, after finding his efforts to
communicate with the Indian unavailing. "If we only had our guns, I'd
make that fellow let us pass or know the reason why. As we haven't any,
and he has one, the argument is too one-sided, and we might as well
retire from it as gracefully as possible. Let us try another direction,
and find out if that is also guarded." They tried in two other places,
only to be repulsed by other determined young guards who, mute as
statues, were equally stolid and impervious to argument.

[Illustration: "THEY WERE SUDDENLY CONFRONTED BY AN INDIAN ARMED WITH A
RIFLE."]

There was nothing to do but to return to the hut and make the best of
the situation. From there no signs of an Indian was to be seen; but
let one of the inmates of the camp stroll beyond its limits in any
direction, and the woods seemed to swarm with them, though the guards
probably did not number more than half a dozen in all.

The day was passed in eating, sleeping, and in discussing their
peculiar situation. They were evidently prisoners, though to all
appearances as free as air; but, as Lieutenant Carey said, there was
no chance of their escaping from the island anyhow, so why they should
be denied the privilege of walking about it he could not understand.
Quorum was equally in the dark with the rest, and said that nothing of
the kind had been intimated by the chiefs during their talk with him.
It was finally decided that instead of being on a small island as they
had supposed, they must be at one end of a large one that contained a
village at the other, which, for some unknown reason, the Indians did
not choose they should visit. With this solution of the problem they
were forced to content themselves, and they waited with impatience the
coming of night, when, according to what Ul-we had told Quorum, their
journey was to be resumed.




CHAPTER XXXII.

CROSSING THE 'GLADES WITHOUT SEEING THEM.


They had an early supper, so as to be all ready for a start whenever
their jailers should see fit to make one. By sunset their blankets were
rolled up, and they were impatiently awaiting some signal; but none
came until darkness had fully set in. Then once more from the direction
of the water came the now familiar cry of a screech-owl. It was
answered from several points about the camp, which showed their Indian
guards to be still on duty. As Quorum had been allowed to go freely to
the shore for water during the day, the Lieutenant now told him to go
down again and discover the meaning of the signal. He returned a minute
later with the news that Ul-we was waiting for him and the cooking
utensils, and that the canoes for the other passengers would arrive
with the setting of the new moon, which hung low in the western sky.

So Quorum left them, as on the previous night. As the silver crescent
of Halissee, the night timepiece of the Everglades, sank from sight,
the others went to the shore, carrying their blankets with them. There
they found two canoes, apparently manned by the same silent crews of
the evening before, awaiting them.

As they shoved off and plunged once more into the trackless 'Glades,
the Lieutenant turned for a look at the island. He could distinguish
its black outlines from end to end, and it was a very small one. This
overthrew the only theory they had formed concerning their close
imprisonment, and left him more than ever puzzled as to its object.

Hour after hour the long poles were steadily wielded by the silent
Indians, who seemed not to know fatigue nor to require rest. All
through the night the heavy dugouts pursued their steady way, crashing
through the crisp bonnets, and bending down the long grasses, that flew
up with a "swish" behind them. It was a marvel to the passengers that
the channels, followed as unerringly by the dusky canoemen as though it
had been daylight, always led into one another. Their own experience
had been that, even with sunlight to guide them, half the channels they
had attempted to follow proved blind leads. But with the Indians it was
never so.

Through the night Lieutenant Carey pondered his situation, and studied
their course by the stars. These told him that it was a little to the
north of east, the very one he would have chosen, and in this respect
the situation was satisfactory. But what information was he gaining
concerning the Everglades, their resources, and present population?
About as little as was possible for one who was actually passing
through them. Could he obtain any more? Evidently not, under the
circumstances. Long and deeply as he pondered the subject, he could
not think of a single feasible plan for altering the existing state of
affairs. He was compelled to acknowledge himself completely outwitted
by the simple-minded sons of the forest into whose power he had so
curiously fallen. "If I could only get at them, and talk to them, and
explain matters to them!" he said aloud; and the sailor answered:

"It wouldn't do no good, sir. There's none in the world so obstinate as
Injins and Malays. Once they gets an idea inside their skulls, all the
white talk you could give 'em wouldn't drive it out. Fighting is the
only argument they can understand; and, if you say the word, I'll have
these two heathen pitched overboard in no time."

"No," said the Lieutenant, "it wouldn't do any good, and my orders are
to treat such Indians as I may meet with all possible friendliness. I
only wish I could meet with some besides these two young automatons,
but there does not seem to be any prospect of it."

At the same time Sumner and Worth, crouched snugly among their blankets
in the bottom of the other canoe, were also talking of their strange
situation.

"Do you suppose any other two fellows ever had such queer times on a
canoe trip as we are having?" asked Worth.

"Indeed I do not," replied Sumner. "And this is the very queerest part
of it. Here we are still on a canoe cruise, without our own canoes,
without knowing where we are going, and without having anything to do
with the management of the craft we are cruising in. It will be a queer
experience to tell about when you get back to New York, won't it?"

"Yes, indeed, it will, though New York seems so very far away that
it is hard to realize that I shall ever get there again. If we could
only see an Indian village, though! It seems too bad to be going right
through an Indian country and yet see nothing of its people."

"Oh, well, we are not through with the 'Glades yet, and you may still
have a chance to see plenty of Indians."

In spite of Sumner's hopefulness, Worth's wish did not seem any nearer
being gratified four days from that time than it did then. Each
night's journey was a repetition of the first, except that they grew
shorter with the growing moon. The Indians refused to travel except in
darkness, and never came for their passengers until after the moon had
set. Each day was spent in a comfortable camp, to which they were so
closely confined that they could learn nothing of their surroundings.
These camps were always located on small islands, and were always
reached before daylight.

Quorum always arrived at the camping-place some time in advance of the
others, and he always found the canoes and the cruiser awaiting him.
From them he was allowed to take whatever he thought the party would
need, but after that first night the boats invariably disappeared
before the others reached them.

Sumner said this was a trick the canoes had learned early on the
cruise, and they had probably taught it to the other boat.

Who caused their disappearance or where they went to, none of them
knew; and but for Quorum the owners of the several craft would have
heard nothing of their whereabouts or welfare.

During this strange journey, as they were unable to do any hunting or
foraging for themselves, Quorum was obliged to exchange so many of
their stores for fresh meat, fruit, and vegetables, that he finally
announced them to be nearly exhausted.

At length, one very dark night, the passengers, who were half dozing in
the bottoms of the canoes, became conscious of a change. The darkness
all at once grew more intense, until they could barely distinguish the
forms of the Indians in the bow and stern of their respective boats.
A rank odor of decaying vegetation filled the air, while the swish of
grass and bonnets was no longer heard. They seemed to be moving more
swiftly and easily than usual. Finally, when they landed, it did not
seem as though they were on an island; and as they made their way
towards the light of the camp-fire, about which Quorum was already
busy, they suddenly realized that it was reflected from a background of
pine-trees.

"Hurrah, boys!" shouted Lieutenant Carey; "there is a sign that our
trip is nearly ended. Pine-trees don't grow in the 'Glades, and
therefore we must be somewhere near the coast. I can't say that I am
sorry, for the trip has been a most disappointing one to me. It has
been a decidedly unique and remarkable one, though--has it not? I
wonder how many people will believe us when we say that we have crossed
the entire width of the Everglades without learning anything about
them, and almost without seeing them? When we add that we have passed
dozens of Indian villages, and yet have not seen an Indian village;
have been surrounded by Indians, but cannot describe their appearance;
have come all the way by water, and brought our own boats with us,
and yet have not set eyes on our own boats since the day we entered
the 'Glades--I am afraid that we shall be regarded much as the old
woman regarded her sailor son when he told her that he had seen fish
with wings and able to fly. In fact, I am afraid they will doubt our
veracity. How I am going to get up any kind of a report to send to
Washington, I am sure I don't know. By-the-way, Quorum, were our canoes
here when you landed?"

"No, sah, dey wasn't; an' I is troubled in my min' frum worryin' about
dem. I is ask dat feller Ul-we, but he don't say nuffin.' 'Pears like
he done los' he tongue, like de res' ob de Injuns. De wust ob hit is,
sah, dat de grub jes about gin out, an' I is got er mighty pore 'pology
fer a breakfus."

So excited were our explorers over their new surroundings, and over
this report that their boats were again missing, that instead of
turning in for a nap, as usual, they sat round the fire and waited
impatiently for daylight. Sumner was the most uneasy of the party, and
every few minutes he would get up and walk away from the firelight, the
better to see if the day were not breaking.

On one of these occasions he was gone so much longer than usual that
the others were beginning to wonder what had become of him. All at once
they heard him shouting from the direction of the place at which they
had landed:

"Hello! in the camp! Come down here, quick! I've got something to show
you."




CHAPTER XXXIII.

AN ADVENTUROUS DEER-HUNT.


In answer to Sumner's call, the others sprang up and hurried in the
direction of his voice. As they got beyond the circle of firelight they
saw that the day was breaking, though in the forest its light was dim
and uncertain. It was much stronger ahead of them, and within a minute
they stood at the water's edge, where objects near at hand were plainly
discernible. Although they more than suspected that the 'Glades had
been left behind, they were hardly prepared for the sight that greeted
their eyes. Instead of a limitless expanse of grass and water dotted
with islands, they saw a broad river flowing dark and silently towards
the coming dawn through a dense growth of tall forest trees. But for
the direction of its current, it was a counterpart of the one, now so
far behind, by which they had entered the 'Glades from the Gulf.

Of more immediate importance even than the river were the objects to
which Sumner triumphantly directed their attention. These were the
long-unseen canoes and the cruiser, with masts, sails, and paddles in
their places, and looking but little the worse for their journey than
when their owners had stepped from them nearly a week before. Sumner
had discovered them, snugly moored to the bank, a short distance below
the landing-place, and had towed them up to where the others now saw
them. In the bottom of the _Hu-la-lah_ lay their guns and pistols,
carefully oiled and in perfect order. Everything was in place, and they
could not find that a single article of their outfit was missing.

"I declare!" said the Lieutenant, "those Indians are decent fellows,
after all, and though I am provoked with them for their obstinacy
in not granting us a single interview, as well as for the way they
compelled us to journey through their country, I can't help admiring
the manner in which they have fulfilled their share of our contract.
They have shown the utmost fairness and honesty in all their dealings
with us, and I don't know that I blame them for the way in which they
have acted. They have been treated so abominably by the Government ever
since Florida came into our possession that they certainly have ample
cause to be suspicious of all white men."

Quorum was sent down to watch the canoes and see that they did not
again disappear, while the others ate the scanty breakfast that he
had prepared. At it they drank the last of their coffee, and Quorum
reported that there was nothing left of their provisions save some
corn-meal and a few biscuit.

As they talked of this state of affairs, Sumner said that he had
started up a deer when he went after the canoes, and Worth was
confident that this must be a good place in which to find his favorite
game--wild turkeys.

"It looks as though we would have to stop here long enough to do a
little hunting before proceeding any farther," said the Lieutenant.

To this proposition the boys, eager to use their recovered guns,
readily agreed.

So, after making sure that their camp was no longer guarded, and that
they were at liberty to go where they pleased, it was decided to devote
the morning to hunting, with the hope of replenishing their larder.
Quorum and the sailor were left to guard camp and the boats, while the
others entered the piny woods, going directly back from the river. The
Lieutenant carried a rifle and the boys their shot-guns, while each had
his pockets well filled with loaded shells.

The pine forest was filled with a dense undergrowth of saw-palmetto,
and the ground beneath these was covered with rough masses of broken
coralline rock. It was also slippery with a thick coating of brown
pine-needles. Under these circumstances, therefore, it was almost
impossible to proceed silently, and whatever game they might have seen
received ample warning of their approach in time to make good its
escape.

When they at length came to a grassy savanna, on the opposite side
of which was a small hammock of green, shrubby trees, the Lieutenant
proposed that the boys remain concealed where they were while he made a
long circuit around it. He would thus approach from its leeward side,
and any game that he might scare up would be almost certain to come in
their direction. After stationing them a few hundred feet apart, so
that they could cover a greater territory, and warning them to keep
perfectly quiet, he left them.

The sky was clouded, and a high wind soughed mournfully through the
tops of the pines. Every now and then the boys were startled by the
crash of a falling branch, while the grating of the interlocking limbs
above them sounded like distressed moanings. It was all so dismal and
lonesome that finally Worth could stand it no longer, and made his way
to where Sumner was sitting.

"Have you noticed how full the air is of smoke?" he said, as he
approached his companion. "My eyes are smarting from it."

"Yes," replied Sumner, "it has given me a choking sensation for some
time. I expect the woods are on fire somewhere."

"Really!" said Worth, looking about him, apprehensively. "Then don't
you think we ought to be getting back towards the river?"

"No, not yet. The fire must be a long way off still, and it would never
do for us to leave without Lieutenant Carey. He would think we were
lost, and be terribly anxious. There he is now! Did you hear that?"

Yes, Worth heard the distant rifle-shot that announced the Lieutenant's
whereabouts. Instantly his freshly aroused hunting instinct banished
all thoughts of the fire, and he hurried back to his post. He had not
more than reached it before there came a crashing among the palmettoes,
and ere the startled boy realized its cause, two deer, bounding over
the undergrowth with superb leaps, dashed past him and disappeared.

"Why didn't you fire?" cried Sumner, hurrying up a moment later. "It
was a splendid shot! I would give anything for such a chance!"

"I never thought of it," answered Worth, ruefully. "Besides, they went
so quickly that I didn't have time."

"They ought to have stood still for a minute or two, that's a fact,"
said Sumner, who was rather inclined to laugh at his less experienced
companion.

Just then there came another crashing of the palmettoes, and a third
deer bounded into sight for an instant, only to disappear immediately
as the others had done.

"Why didn't you fire?" laughed Worth. "It was a splendid shot!"

"Because this is your station," replied Sumner, anxious to conceal
beneath this weak excuse the fact that he had been fully as startled
and unnerved as his companion. "I do believe, though," he added, "that
this last fellow was wounded, and perhaps we may get him yet."

The discovery of fresh blood on the palmetto leaves through which the
flying animal had passed confirmed this belief, and without a thought
of the possible consequences the boys set off in hot pursuit of the
wounded deer.

They easily followed the trail of the blood-smeared leaves, and in the
ardor of their pursuit they might have gone a mile, or they might have
gone ten for all they knew, when suddenly, without warning, they came
face to face with the deer. He was a full-grown buck, with branching
antlers still in the velvet, and by his swaying from side to side he
was evidently exhausted. The sight of his enemies seemed to infuse him
with renewed strength, and the next instant he charged fiercely towards
them.

Worth, attempting to run, tripped and fell in his path. Sumner,
with better luck, sprang aside, and sent a charge of buckshot into
the furious animal at such short range that the muzzle of his gun
nearly touched it. It fell in a heap on top of Worth, gave one or two
convulsive kicks, and was dead.

Its warm life-blood spurted over the prostrate boy, and when Sumner
dragged him from beneath the quivering carcass he was smeared with it
from head to foot.

"Are you hurt, old man?" inquired Sumner, anxiously, as his companion
leaned heavily on him, trembling from exhaustion and his recent fright.

"I don't know that I am," replied Worth, with a feeble attempt at a
smile. "I expect I am only bruised and scratched. But, oh, Sumner,
what an awfully ferocious thing a deer is! Seems to me they are as bad
as panthers. What wouldn't I give for a drink of water! I can hardly
speak, I am so choked with smoke."

With this, Sumner suddenly became aware that the smoke, which they
had not noticed in the excitement of their chase, had so increased
in density that breathing was becoming difficult. Thoroughly alarmed,
he looked about him. In all directions the woods were full of it, and
even at a short distance the trees showed indistinctly through its blue
haze. Now, for the first time, the boys were conscious of a dull roar
with which the air was filled. Their long chase must have led them
directly towards the fire.

"We must get back to camp as quickly as possible!" exclaimed Sumner,
realizing at once the danger of their situation. "Come on, Worth, we
haven't a moment to lose!"

"But what shall we do with our deer?" asked the blood-covered boy, who
could not bear the thought of relinquishing their hard-won prize.

"Never mind the deer, but come along!" replied Sumner. "If I am not
mistaken, we shall have our hands full taking care of ourselves. That
fire is coming down on us faster than we can run, and we haven't any
too much start of it as it is."




CHAPTER XXXIV.

HEMMED IN BY A FOREST FIRE.


Which way were they to fly? The terrible roar of the burning forest
seemed to come from all directions, and the smoke seemed hardly
less dense on one side than on another. But there had been no fire
where they came from, and they must retrace their steps along the
blood-marked trail that they had followed, of course. Although the body
of the deer lay near the spot where it had ended, they were at first
too bewildered to discover it, and lost several precious minutes in
searching among the palmetto leaves for its crimson signs. At length
they found them, and started back on a run.

It was exhausting work trying to run through the thick scrub, over its
loglike roots, and among the rough rock masses strewn in the wildest
confusion between them, and their speed was quickly reduced to a walk.
Sumner went ahead, and, with arms uplifted to protect his face from the
sawlike edges of the stout leaf stems, forced a way through them, with
Worth close behind him.

They had not gone far when Sumner suddenly stopped and, with a
despairing gesture, pointed ahead. The flames were in front of them,
and could be distinctly seen licking the brown tree-trunks, and
stretching their writhing arms high aloft towards the green tops.

"We are going right into the fire!" the boy exclaimed, hoarsely. "The
deer must have seen it, and been curving away from it when we overtook
him!"

So they turned back, and rushed blindly, without trying to follow the
trail, in the opposite direction. Before they had gone half a mile
Worth's strength became exhausted, and he sank down on a palmetto root
gasping for breath.

"I can't go any farther, Sumner! Oh, I can't!" he cried, piteously.

"But you must! You can't stay here to be burned to death! We are almost
certain to find a slough with water in it, or a stream!" and grasping
his comrade by the arm, Sumner pulled him again to his feet.

As he did so, the hammers of Worth's gun became caught in something,
and the next instant both barrels were discharged with a startling
explosion.

"That's a good idea!" exclaimed Sumner. "Let's fire all our cartridges
as fast as we can. Perhaps they are out looking for us, and will hear
the shots."

So saying, he fired both barrels of his own gun into the air, and
quickly reloading, fired again. Worth followed suit; but just as
Sumner was ready to fire for the third time he was startled by a sharp
crackling sound close beside him. He turned quickly. There was a
bright blaze within ten feet of him. The first accidental discharge of
Worth's gun, as it lay pointed directly into a mass of dry grass and
dead palmetto leaves, had set this on fire. Worth instinctively sprang
towards it with the intention of trying to stamp it out, but, with a
joyful cry, Sumner restrained him.

"It's the very thing!" he shouted. "A back fire! Why didn't I think of
it before? We must set a line of it as quick as we can!"

Worth did not understand, and hesitated; but seeing Sumner, with a
bunch of lighted leaves in his hand, rush from one clump of palmetto to
another, touching his blazing torch to their dry, tinderlike stalks, he
realized that his companion knew what he was about, and began to follow
his example.

Within five minutes a wall of flame a hundred yards in length was
roaring and leaping in front of them, fanned into such fury by the high
wind that they were obliged to retreat from its blistering breath.
They could not retreat far, however, for during their delay the main
fire had gained fearfully upon them, and its awful roar seemed one of
rage that they should have attempted to escape from it. Mingled with
this was the crash of falling trees and the screams of wild animals
that now began to rush frantically past the boys. A herd of flying
deer nearly trampled them underfoot; and directly afterwards they were
confronted with the gleaming eyes of a panther. With an angry snarl he
too dashed forward. Great snakes writhed and hissed along the ground,
and Worth clutched Sumner's arm in terror.

Seizing his gun, the latter began shooting at the snakes; nor did he
stop until his last cartridge was expended.

It was horrible to stand there helplessly awaiting the result of
that life-and-death race between those mighty columns of flame; but
they knew not what else to do. Now they could no longer see in which
direction to fly. The swirling smoke-clouds were closing in on them
from all sides, and only by holding their faces close to the earth
could they catch occasional breaths of fresh air.

Sumner's plan was to remain where they were until the last moment, and
then rush out over the smouldering embers of the fire they had set.
The main body of this was now rapidly retreating from them. At the
same time a fringe of flame from it was working backward towards them.
Though they made feeble efforts to beat this out, their strength was
too nearly exhausted for them to make much headway against it. The heat
was now so intense that their skin was blistering, and their brains
seemed almost ready to burst.

Worth had flung away his gun, just after loading it, when he began to
set the back fires, and now the sound of a double report from that
direction showed that the flames had found it. The noise of these
reports was followed by a loud cry, and out of the smoke-clouds a
strange, wild figure came leaping. It was a human figure. As the boys
recognized it, they echoed its cry. Then by their frantic shouts they
guided it to where they were crouching and making ready for their
desperate rush into the hot ashes and still blazing remains of the back
fire.

The figure that sprang to their side, and, seizing Worth's arm, uttered
the single word "Come!" was that of Ul-we, the young Seminole, though
the boys, having never seen him, did not, of course, recognize him.

With thankful hearts and implicit faith they followed him as he dashed
back into the thickest of the smoke-clouds that still hung low over
the newly burnt space before them. They choked and gasped, and their
feet became blistered with the heat that penetrated through the soles
of their boots. Worth would have fallen but for the strong hand that
upheld him, and dragged him resistlessly forward. The ordeal of fire
lasted but a minute, when they emerged in a grassy glade at one end of
the burnt space, and ran to a clump of water-loving shrubs that marked
a slough beyond it.

The vanguard of the main fire raced close after them, flashing through
the brittle grass as though it were gunpowder; and as they dashed into
the bushes, and their feet sank into the mud and water of the slough,
its hot breath was mingled with theirs.

In the very centre of the thicket Ul-we threw himself down in water
that just covered his body, and held his head a little above its
surface. The boys followed his example, and experienced an instant
relief from the cool water. In this position they could breathe easily,
for the smoke-clouds seemed unable to touch the surface of the water,
but rolled two or three inches above it.

Here they lay for what seemed an eternity while the fire-fiends raged
and roared on all sides of them, and in the air above. The heat waves
scorched and withered the green thicket, the water of the little slough
grew warm and almost hot, the air that they breathed was stifling, and
for a time it almost seemed as though they had escaped a roasting only
to be boiled alive like lobsters.

After a while, that appeared to the poor boys a long, weary time,
the fiercest of the flames swept by, and their roar no longer filled
the surrounding space. There were rifts in the smoke-clouds, and
perceptible intervals of fresh air between them. Finally the boys could
sit up, and at length stand, but not until then were they certain that
the danger had passed.

Then Sumner grasped the young Indian's right hand in both of his, and
tears stood in the boy's eyes as he said: "I don't know as you can
understand me; I don't know who you are, and I don't care. I only know
that you have saved us from a horrible death, and that from this moment
I am your friend for life."

As for poor Worth, the tears fairly streamed down his smoke-begrimed,
blood-stained cheeks, as, in faltering words, he also tried to express
his gratitude.

[Illustration: "THE ORDEAL OF FIRE LASTED BUT A MINUTE."]

The Indian seemed to understand, for he smiled and said: "Me Ul-we.
Quor'm know um. You Summer. You Worf. Me heap glad find um. 'Fraid not.
Hunt um; hunt um long time, no find um. Bimeby hear gun, plenty. Hunt
um, no find um. Bimeby hear one gun, bang! bang! quick. Then come, find
um. _Hindleste._ If me no find um, fire catch um pretty quick, burn up,
go big sleep _Holewagus_! Ul-we feel bad, Quor'm feel bad, all body
feel bad. Now all body heap hap, dance, sing, eat heap, feel plenty
glad."

All of which may be translated thus: "I am very glad to have found you,
for I was afraid I shouldn't. I hunted and hunted a long time, but
couldn't find you. At last I heard guns fired many times, and hunted in
that direction, still without finding you. Finally I heard both barrels
of a gun fired at once, not far from where I was, and then I found you.
It is good. If I had not found you just when I did, the fire would have
caught you and burned you to death, which would have been terrible. I
should have felt very badly. So would Quorum and all your friends. Now
everybody will rejoice."

Ul-we had been ordered to watch the camp of the white men by the river
until they left it, but to remain unseen by them. He had noted the
departure of the hunting party, and had also been aware of the approach
of the forest fire while it was still at a great distance. When, some
hours later, the Lieutenant came back full of anxiety concerning the
boys, and immediately started off again to hunt for them, Ul-we also
started in another direction, with the happy result already described.

They remained in the slough two hours longer, before the surrounding
country was sufficiently cooled off for them to travel over it. Then
they set out under Ul-we's guidance, though where he would take them to
the boys had not the faintest idea.




CHAPTER XXXV.

THE BOYS IN A SEMINOLE CAMP.


Although Ul-we started out from the slough that had proved such a haven
of safety in one direction, he quickly found cause to change it for
another. This cause was the lameness of the boys, for their blistered
feet felt as though parboiled, and each step was so painful that it
seemed as if they could not take another. They were also faint for want
of food, and exhausted by their recent terrible experience. The young
Indian was also suffering greatly. The moccasins had been burned from
his feet, and the act of walking caused him the keenest pain; but no
trace of limp or hesitation betrayed it, nor did he utter a murmur of
complaint.

He had intended leading them directly to their own camp; but that
was miles away, and seeing that they would be unable to reach it in
their present condition, he changed his course towards a much nearer
place of refuge. He soon found that to get Worth even that far he must
support and almost carry him. As for Sumner, he clinched his teeth,
and mentally vowing that he would hold out as long as the barefooted
Indian, he strode manfully along behind the others with his gun, which
he had retained through all their struggles, on his shoulder.

In this way, after an hour of weary marching, they entered a live-oak
hammock, into which even the fierce forest fire had not been able
to penetrate. Here they were soon greeted by a barking of dogs that
announced the presence of some sort of a camp. It was that of the
Seminole party which had been detailed to conduct our explorers across
the Everglades, and act as guards about their halting-places. There
were about twenty men in this party, and as they had brought their
women and children with them, and had erected at this place a number of
palmetto huts, the camp presented the aspect of a regular village. Poor
Worth had just strength enough to turn to Sumner, with a feeble smile,
and say, "At last we are going to see one," when he sank down, unable
to walk another step.

A shout from Ul-we brought the inmates of the camp flocking to the
spot. Both the boys were tenderly lifted in strong arms and borne to
one of the huts, where they were laid on couches of skins and blankets.
They were indeed spectacles calculated to move even an Indian's heart
to pity. Their clothing was in rags, while their faces, necks, and
hands were torn by the saw-palmettoes through which they had forced
their way. Worth was found to have received several cuts from the
sharp hoofs of the wounded deer, and he was blood-stained from head to
foot. Besides this, they were begrimed with smoke and soot until their
original color had entirely disappeared. They were water-soaked and
plastered with mud and ashes. Certainly two more forlorn and thoroughly
wretched-looking objects had never been seen there, or elsewhere, than
were our canoemates at that moment.

But no people know better how to deal with just such cases than the
Indians into whose hands the boys had so fortunately fallen, and within
an hour their condition was materially changed for the better. Their
soaked and ragged clothing had been removed, they had been bathed in
hot water and briskly rubbed from head to foot. A salve of bear's
grease had been applied to their cuts and to their blistered feet,
which latter were also bound with strips of cotton-cloth. Each was clad
in a clean calico shirt of gaudy colors and fanciful ornamentation.
Each had a gay handkerchief bound about his head, and a pair of loose
moccasins drawn over his bandaged feet. Each was also provided with a
red blanket which, belted about the waist and hanging to the ground,
took the place of trousers.

Thus arrayed, and sitting on bear-skin couches, with a steaming sofkee
kettle and its great wooden spoon between them, it is doubtful if
their own parents would have recognized them. For all that they were
very comfortable, and by the way that sofkee was disappearing, it was
evident that their appetites at least had suffered no injury. They
at once recognized sofkee from Quorum's description. They also knew
the history of the wooden spoon; but just now they were too hungry to
remember it, or to care if they did.

At length, when they had almost reached the limit of their capacity
in the eating line, and began to find time for conversation, Worth
remarked, meditatively:

"I believe, after all, that I like fishing better than hunting. There
isn't so much excitement about it, but, on the whole, I think it is
more satisfactory."

"Fishing for what?" laughed Sumner. "For bits of meat, with a wooden
spoon, in a Seminole sofkee kettle, and looking so much like an Indian
that your own father would refuse to recognize you?"

"If I thought I looked as much like an Indian as you do I would never
claim to be a white boy again," retorted Worth.

"I only wish that I could hold a mirror up in front of you," replied
Sumner; and then each was so struck by the comical appearance of the
other that they laughed until out of breath; while the stolid-faced
Seminole boys, stealthily staring at them from outside the hut,
exchanged looks of pitying amazement.

After this, Sumner still further excited the wonder of the young
Indians by performing several clever sleight-of-hand tricks, while
Worth regretted his inability to dance a clog for their benefit. Then
calling Ul-we into the hut, Sumner presented him with his shot-gun,
greatly to the "Tall One's" satisfaction. Worth was distressed that he
had nothing to give the brave young fellow; but brightened at Sumner's
suggestion that perhaps Ul-we would go with them to Cape Florida, where
Mr. Manton would be certain to present him with some suitable reward
for his recent service.

When Ul-we was made to comprehend what was wanted of him, he explained
that it would be impossible to go with them then, but that he would
meet them at Cape Florida on any date that they might fix. So Sumner
fixed the date as the first night of the next new moon, and Worth
added a request that he should bring with him all the occupants of the
present camp, which he promised to do, if possible.

Although the boys had no idea of where they were, they felt confident
that somehow or other they would be able to keep the appointment thus
made, and also that the Mantons' yacht would be on hand about the same
time. They tried to find out from Ul-we how far they were from Cape
Florida at the present moment; but he, having received orders not to
afford any member of Lieutenant Carey's party the slightest information
regarding the country through which they were passing, pretended not to
understand the boys' questions, and only answered, vaguely, "Un-cah" to
all of them.

By this time the day was nearly spent, and it was sunset when the boys'
own clothes were returned to them, dried, cleaned, and with their rents
neatly mended by the skilful needles of the Seminole squaws. Then Ul-we
said he was ready to take them to their own camp, and though they
would gladly have stayed longer in this interesting village, the boys
realized that they ought to relieve Lieutenant Carey's anxiety as soon
as possible. So they expressed their willingness to accompany Ul-we,
but hoped that the walk would not be a long one.

"No walk," replied Ul-we, smiling. "Go Injun boat. Heap quick."

Accompanied by half the camp, and shouting back, "Heep-a-non-est-cha,"
which they had learned meant good-bye, to the rest, they followed their
guide a short distance to the head of a narrow ditch that had evidently
been dug by the Indians. Here they entered Ul-we's canoe, and after a
few minutes of poling they realized, in spite of the darkness, that
they were once more on the edge of the Everglades.

After skirting the forest line for some time, they turned sharply into
a stream that entered it, and again the boys found themselves borne
rapidly along on a swift current through a cypress belt. An hour later
they saw the glow of a camp-fire through the trees, and their canoe was
directed towards it. Stepping out as the canoe slid silently up to the
bank, the boys, wishing to surprise their friends, stole softly in the
direction of the circle of firelight. On its edge they paused.

At one side of the fire sat Lieutenant Carey, looking worn and haggard;
Quorum stood near him, gazing into the flames with an expression of the
deepest dejection, while the sailor, looking very solemn, was toasting
a bit of fresh meat on the end of a stick.

"No," they heard the Lieutenant say, "I can't conceive any hope that
they have escaped, for the only traces that I found of them led
directly towards the fire. How I can ever muster up courage to face
Mrs. Rankin or meet the Mantons with the news of this tragedy, I don't
know."

"Hit's a ter'ble t'ing, sah. Ole Quor'm know him couldn' do hit."

"Then it's lucky you won't have to try!" exclaimed Sumner, joyously,
stepping into sight, closely followed by Worth.

"Oh, you precious young rascals! You villains, you!" cried the
Lieutenant, springing to his feet, and seizing the boys by the
shoulders, as though about to shake them. "How dared you give us such a
fright? Where have you been?"

"Out deer-hunting, sir," answered Sumner, demurely.

Quorum was dancing about them, uttering uncouth and inarticulate
expressions of joy; while the sailor, having dropped his meat into the
fire, where it burned unheeded, gazed at them in speechless amazement.

They told their story in disjointed sentences, from which their hearers
only gathered a vague idea that they had killed a deer in the burning
forest, been rescued from the flames by an Indian, and borne in his
arms to a Seminole village in the Everglades, from which, by some
unseen means, they had just come.

[Illustration: SUMNER AND WORTH IN THE SEMINOLE CAMP.]

"I'll bring him up, and he can tell you all about it himself,"
concluded Sumner, turning towards the landing-place, to which the
Lieutenant insisted on accompanying him, apparently not willing to
trust him again out of sight.

But neither Ul-we nor his canoe was there. He had taken advantage of
the momentary confusion to disappear, and the Lieutenant said he was
thankful their canoes had not disappeared at the same time.

When they returned to the fire, they found Quorum hard at work cooking
venison steaks.

"Then you did get a deer, sir, after all?" queried Sumner.

"No, I only wounded one, and he escaped. This fellow was one of a herd
that, terrified by the fire, came crashing right into camp, and was
shot by the sailor."

"That's the way I shall hunt hereafter," exclaimed Worth--"stay quietly
and safely in camp, and let the game come to me!"




CHAPTER XXXVI.

ONE OF THE RAREST ANIMALS IN THE WORLD.


After their day of excitement, terror, and anxiety the explorers passed
a happy evening around their camp-fire, and Lieutenant Carey gained a
clearer idea of the boys' adventures and escapes. He admitted that the
kindness shown them in the Seminole camp gave him a new insight into
the Indian character, and wished that he might have had a chance to
thank and reward Ul-we for his brave rescue of the young canoemates. He
also regretted that he, too, could not have visited that Indian camp,
and hoped that the appointment made by the boys with Ul-we might be
kept.

In spite of their recent hearty meal of sofkee, a preparation of which
they spoke in the highest terms, the boys were able to do ample justice
to Quorum's venison steaks, greatly to the satisfaction of the old
negro. He would have felt deeply grieved if they had allowed any amount
of feasting in an Indian camp to interfere with their enjoyment of a
meal that he had cooked, no matter how short an interval might have
elapsed between the two.

Although the boys felt rather stiff and lame the next morning, it
did not prevent their being ready bright and early to continue their
journey. It was a great pleasure to be once more afloat in their own
canoes, and this was increased by the fact that they now had a swift
current with them. It was a glorious March day, and all nature seemed
to share their high spirits as they glided smoothly down the beautiful
river. The water swarmed with fish and alligators, and the adjacent
forest was alive with birds. Among the innumerable fish that darted
beneath them, they soon recognized several salt-water varieties, which
assured them that the ocean could not be far off.

As the three canoes were moving quietly along abreast of each other and
close together, the _Psyche_ suddenly glided over a huge black object
that for an instant seemed inclined to rise and lift it bodily into the
air. As it was dropped back, there was a tremendous floundering, and
all three of the light craft were rocked so violently that only the
skill of their navigators saved them from capsizing.

"Was it a waterquake?" inquired Worth, with a very pale face, as soon
as his fright would allow him to speak.

"Yes; and there it goes," laughed the Lieutenant, pointing to a great
dim form that could just be seen moving swiftly off through the clear
water.

"It must have been a whale," said Sumner.

"No," answered Lieutenant Carey; "but it was the next thing to it.
It was a manatee or sea-cow. I have seen them in the lower Indian
River, but did not know they were found down here. I wish you boys
might have a good look at him, though, for the manatee is one of the
rarest animals in the world. It is warm-blooded and amphibious, lives
on water-grasses and other aquatic plants, grows to be twelve or
fifteen feet long, weighs nearly a ton, and is one of the most timid
and harmless of creatures. It is the only living representative of its
family on this continent, all the other members being extinct. The
Indians hunt it for its meat, which is said to be very good eating,
and for its bones, which are as fine-grained and as hard as ivory. In
general appearance it is not unlike a seal. It can strike a powerful
blow with its great flat tail, but is otherwise unarmed and incapable
of injuring an enemy. Several have been caught in nets and shipped
North for exhibition, but none of them has lived more than a few weeks
in captivity."

"What made that fellow go for us if he isn't a fighter?" asked Worth.

"He didn't," laughed the Lieutenant. "He was probably asleep, and is
wondering why we went for him. I can assure you that he was vastly more
scared than we were."

"He must have been frightened almost to death, then," said Sumner.

Soon after this they saw a landing-place on the left bank. Stopping to
examine it, they discovered a trail leading through a fringe of bushes,
behind which was an Indian field covering an old shell mound, and in a
high state of cultivation. In it were growing sweet-potatoes, melons,
squashes, sugar-cane, and beans--a supply of which they would gladly
have purchased had the proprietors been present. As they were not, and
necessity knows no law, our canoemen helped themselves to what they
needed, and when they left, the load of the cruiser was materially
increased.

At length they heard the dull boom of surf, and realized that only
a narrow strip of land separated them from the ocean. Late in the
afternoon they reached the mouth of the river, and the boys uttered
joyous shouts as they looked out over its bar and saw a limitless
expanse of blue waters, unbroken by islands, glistening in the light of
the setting sun.

With light hearts they went into camp on the inner side of the sandy
point separating the quiet waters on which they had been floating from
the long swells of the open sea. They intended running out of the river
and down the coast in the morning, for from their surroundings, as well
as from the general course they had taken through the 'Glades, the
Lieutenant was satisfied that they must be considerably to the north of
Cape Florida.

The boys determined to sleep in their canoes that night, and rigged up
the little-used striped canoe tents for that purpose. While they were
doing this, and the Lieutenant was pitching his own tent on shore, and
the others were collecting drift-wood on the beach, there came a hail
from across the river.

"Hello there! Bring a boat over here, can't ye?"

It was the first white man they had seen since leaving the _Transit_,
and going over in the cruiser, Sumner brought him back. He proved to
be a barefooted boy, a year younger than Worth, and yet he was the
mail-carrier over the most southerly land route, and one of the most
lonesome, in the United States. It is the seventy-mile stretch between
Lake Worth and Biscayne Bay, and every week this boy or his younger
brother walked the whole distance and back along the beach, with a
mail-sack on his back. He had to cross the mouths of two rivers,
for which purpose he kept an old skiff at each one. It sometimes
happened, as in the present case, that some other beach traveller
would appropriate his boat, and leave it on the wrong side. Then,
unless fortunate enough to find some one to set him across, he would be
obliged to brave the sharks and other sea-monsters, with which these
rivers swarm, and swim over after his own boat. Along his route were
three houses of refuge, situated twenty miles apart, and belonging to
the Life-saving Service. Each of them contained a single keeper, and
these were the only persons seen by the lonely mail-boy while on his
toilsome tramps.

The boy was greatly interested in the canoes, which he declared were
the neatest little tricks he ever did see, but he scouted the idea of
sleeping in them. "Why," said he, "some of them sharks or porpusses
what uses round here nights will run inter ye an' upsot ye quicker'n
wink."

He was amazed that they should cruise in such tiny craft, and begged
them not to think of attempting to run down the coast in them. On the
whole he regarded our young canoemates as being particularly daring and
reckless fellows, and they regarded him in much the same way, though
he made light of his lonely beach tramps, on which he often met bears,
panthers, or other wild animals.

He told them that they were about twenty-five miles north of Cape
Florida; that there was a "station" on the beach six miles north of
them; that turtle were beginning to lay eggs, and bears to frequent the
beach in search of them; that sharks grew larger in those very waters
than anywhere else on the coast; and that an easterly wind would blow
in the morning, which would prevent their crossing the bar. Having
delivered himself of this information, and saying that he must make the
station that night, the boy slung his mail-sack over his shoulders, and
started off at a brisk pace up the soft shelving beach.

After what he had told them about sharks, Sumner and Worth concluded
not to sleep in their canoes that night. They might have done so with
perfect safety, however, for no shark was ever known to overturn a boat
for the sake of getting at a human being inside of it.

The next morning the mail-boy's prediction in regard to the east wind
was verified. It was blowing briskly at sunrise, and already a big sea
was rolling in, combing and booming on the bar. Their boats would not
live in it a moment, and consequently they must stay where they were
until the wind changed.

After breakfast the Lieutenant sat in his tent writing, the sailor was
repairing a torn sail, Quorum was taking a nap, and the boys were left
to their own devices for amusement. An hour or so later Lieutenant
Carey, the sailor, and Quorum were startled by loud calls for help from
the beach, and hurried in that direction to see what new scrape the
"young rascals," as the Lieutenant called them, had got into now.




CHAPTER XXXVII.

FISHING FOR SHARKS.


In strolling along the outer beach, picking up curious sponges and bits
of coral, the attention of the boys was also attracted to the shadowy
forms of great fish that they could distinguish every now and then
darting along the green base of the combers just before they broke.

"Do you think they can be sharks?" asked Worth.

"Yes," replied Sumner; "I am almost sure they are."

"My! but I wish we could catch one! I have never seen a shark out of
water."

"I shouldn't wonder if we could. I've got a shark-hook in the _Psyche_,
and our Manila cables, knotted together, will make just the kind of
line we want."

Fifteen minutes later the hook and line had been prepared. For bait,
they took one of a number of fish that Quorum had caught that morning.

The shark-hook was a huge affair, over a foot long and made of steel a
quarter of an inch thick. To it was attached by a swivel several feet
of chain terminating in a ring to which the line was made fast.

Sumner had caught many sharks off Key West wharves, but they had been
comparatively small, and with the monsters of the reef he had hitherto
had no dealings. Consequently, he was almost as ignorant of their
strength as was Worth. Therefore, without reflecting on the folly of
the act, and fearing that the line might be jerked from his hands, he
made its inner end fast about his waist.

Then whirling the heavy hook above his head, he cast it far out in the
breakers. Within a minute it was tossed back to the beach, and had to
be thrown again. This operation was repeated so many times without any
result that the boys were beginning to tire of it, when all at once
there came a jerk on the line that nearly threw Sumner off his feet.

"Hurrah!" he cried. "We've got him at last! Catch hold, Worth, and help
me haul him in."

But it was soon evident that instead of their catching the shark, he
had caught them. In spite of all their efforts, and no matter how
deeply they dug their feet into the sand, the boys found themselves
being dragged slowly but surely towards the water. At first they did
not realize their danger; but when they were within a few yards of the
creamy froth churned up by the breakers, it flashed over them, and they
began to utter those shouts for help that attracted the attention of
their companions in the camp.

Although Worth could have let go of the line at any minute, the thought
of doing such a thing never entered his head. Even when the water was
about his feet and the wet sand was slipping rapidly from beneath them,
the plucky little chap held on and struggled with all his might to
avert the fate that threatened his friend.

They were nearly hopeless before the three men reached them, and,
rushing into the water, seized the line with such a powerful grasp that
its seaward motion was instantly arrested. Not only that, but they
walked away with it so easily that a minute later the shark was landed
high and dry on the beach, where the sailor despatched it with an axe.

It was a white shark of moderate size, being not more than seven or
eight feet long. For all that, it was a monster as compared with those
Sumner had been in the habit of catching, and he gazed with a curious
sensation at its wicked eyes, and the row upon row of curved gleaming
teeth with which the gaping mouth was provided.

"It was a close call for you, my boy," said the Lieutenant, gravely,
"and has taught you a lesson that I am sure you will never forget.
You may thank your lucky stars that the hook was taken by this little
fellow instead of by one of his grandfathers or uncles. Now that we
have started in this business, I am going to try and show you what
might have happened."

Under his direction a hole some five feet deep was dug, a heavy timber,
selected from those with which the beach was strewn, was thrust into
it, and the sand was repacked solidly about it. To this, instead of
to Sumner's body, the end of the line was attached, and the fishing
for sharks was resumed. While the post was being set, Lieutenant Carey
brought his rifle from the camp. Several sharks, some smaller and some
larger than the first, were caught; but not until the hook was seized
by one that dragged the entire party clinging to it slowly down the
beach did the Lieutenant express himself as satisfied.

"Hold on to it!" he cried. "Brace yourselves! Snub him all you can!"

The strain on the line was tremendous, and it hummed like a harpstring.
But for the post to aid them, they must have let go. At length,
even the enormous strength at the other end of the line began to be
exhausted. Foot by foot the slack was gathered in and held at the
post. Then a great ugly-looking head could be seen in the edge of the
breakers, and the next minute a rifle-ball crashed into it.

In the flurry that followed the line snapped, and the boys uttered a
cry of dismay. But the bullet had done its work, and a few minutes
later the huge carcass was rolling like a log in the surf. The sailor
managed to get a bight of the line over its tail, and by their united
efforts the great fish was drawn partly from the water; but beyond
there they could not move it. It was nearly fifteen feet long, and
Sumner shuddered as he realized how easily and quickly such a monster
as that could have dragged him out to sea.

"It seems to me," said Worth, "that some kinds of fishing are as
dangerous as deer-hunting, and just as exciting."

While they were still looking at the big shark their attention was
attracted to a loud barking in the beach scrub behind them, and by
a man's voice shouting: "Wus-le! Wus-le! You, sir! Come here!" It
was evident that Wus-le was a dog, and that he was engaged in some
absorbing occupation that forbade him to pay any attention to the calls
of his unseen master.

Going to the place from which the barking came, the shark-fishers
were in time to witness a most interesting performance. A small
brindled bull-terrier was tearing in a circle round and round a
coiled rattlesnake. The former was barking furiously, and the sound
so enraged the snake that the angry whir-r-r-r of its rattles was
almost continuous. At the same time it was dazed by the rapidity of
the dog's motions. At length it sprang forward, struck viciously, and
missed its mark. At the same moment the dog dashed in, seized the snake
by the back, gave one furious shake, and jumped away. The snake was
evidently injured, for it re-coiled slowly. Once more, enraged beyond
endurance, it struck at its agile adversary, and then the dog had him.
In an instant the snake's back was broken, and a minute later it lay
motionless and dead.

As soon as he was certain of his victory, the dog paid no more
attention to his late enemy, but with panting breath and lolling tongue
that betrayed the energy of his recent exertions, he ran to meet his
master, who appeared at that moment from the direction of the river.

He was a powerfully built man, dressed partly as a hunter and partly
as a sailor. He carried a rifle, and introduced himself as the keeper
of the house of refuge a few miles up the coast. He upbraided the dog
as though it were a human being for tackling a rattlesnake, and then
remarked apologetically to the spectators of the recent fight: "I have
to scold him on general principles, but it don't do any good. He is
bound to fight and kill snakes till they kill him, which I am always
expecting they will. They haven't done it yet, though, and he has
killed more than twenty rattlers, besides more of other kinds than I
can count. He's a good dog, Wus-le is, and he's a terror to snakes."

The man said he had learned of the Lieutenant and his companions being
in the river from the mail-carrier, and, feeling lonely, had come to
invite them to go to the station and stay with him until the wind
changed. As he assured them that this was not likely to happen for
several days, and as they were ahead of the time set for their arrival
at Cape Florida, Lieutenant Carey accepted the invitation.

On their way up the river their guide pointed out a grove of cocoanut
palms, marking the site of a fort erected during the Seminole War, the
name of which was at one time familiar to all Americans. It was the
scene of the treacherous seizure of the famous chief Osceola, who was
lured into it under the pretence of considering a treaty. From there
he was hurried to Fort Moultrie, in Charleston Harbor, where he soon
afterwards died of a broken heart.

They found the station to be a low, roomy structure, surrounded by
broad piazzas, built in the most solid manner so as to withstand
hurricanes. It stood on top of the beach ridge, and commanded a
glorious view of the ocean, as well as of the low-lying back country.
At one end was a small separate house containing a great cistern,
in which a supply of water was collected during the rainy season of
summer, to last through the long winter drought. At the opposite end
stood a building in which was kept a metallic life-boat and a quantity
of canned provisions for the use of sailors who might be wrecked on
that lonely coast.

Here the exploring party remained for nearly a week, while the wind
still held steadily to the east, and they all declared it to be the
happiest and most interesting week of their cruise.

They hunted, fished, and sailed on the inland waters behind the beach
ridge to their hearts' content. Quorum was kept constantly busy cooking
on the station kitchen stove the venison, fish, turtle, ducks, quail,
'possum, and other food supplies with which the surrounding country
abounded.

Worth felt that his reputation as a hunter was fully restored when he
shot a wild-cat that Wus-le had treed, and Sumner was more than proud
over the killing of a black bear, which the same enterprising dog
discovered one night digging for turtle eggs on the beach but a short
distance from the station. The Lieutenant worked at the report of his
expedition, while the sailor and the keeper labored at the frame of a
light-draught, sea-going boat, which the latter wished to build for his
own use, and for which Sumner furnished the plans and model.

At length the wind, which in that country always boxes the compass,
worked around to the westward, and as it was the end of March, the
canoes were again loaded, and the pleasant life at the station came to
an end.




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

LITTLE KO-WIK-A SAILS OUT TO SEA.


There was a long swell heaving in over the bar at the mouth of the
river, but no breakers; and the little fleet, crossing it easily, laid
a course down the coast. A stretch of twenty miles lay before them ere
they would find another opening into which they could run for shelter,
and they were therefore desirous of making the run before night. On
most waters this would not have been difficult; but just here was a
strong head current, that of the Gulf Stream, running fully three miles
an hour, and they knew that to overcome this, and also to make twenty
miles during the day, would tax the sailing powers of their small
craft to the utmost. Nor could they all sail. The _Hu-la-lah_ had no
centre-board, and with the wind somewhat forward of abeam, the use
of her sail would only have driven her off shore. The Lieutenant was
therefore obliged to rely upon his paddle and keep close to the coast.
The cruiser, being a slow sailer close-hauled, kept him company, but
the _Psyche_ and _Cupid_ drew gradually ahead, and were soon out of
hailing distance.

It was so delightful to find themselves again sailing, and their canoes
were doing so splendidly, that the boys hated to stop. And why should
they? There was nothing to fear. They knew where they were going, the
others were in company, and a halting-place for the night had been
agreed upon. They would stop when they reached it, and that would be
soon enough.

Until noon the breeze was very light, but after that it freshened
and soon came off the land in angry little gusts that suggested the
propriety of reefing. With a single reef in each of their sails, they
ran until late in the afternoon, when they sighted a cut leading into
the great land-locked sheet of Biscayne Bay. They were to enter this
bay and cruise down behind its outer keys to Cape Florida, but it had
been decided that they should camp on the upper side of the cut for
that night.

The wind had increased in strength until now even double-reefed sails
could hardly be carried on the canoes. The whole sky was covered with
dark clouds, while a bank of inky blackness was rising in the west.
It was evident that a wind-squall of unusual violence would shortly
burst upon them, and almost at the same moment both the canoemates
lowered their sails, jointed their paddles, and headed straight in for
land. As he lowered his sail and cast a glance astern in search of the
other boats, Sumner noticed a large steamer coming down the coast. He
wondered if she were not too close in for safety, but the immediate
demands of his situation quickly drove all thoughts of her from his
mind.

In the teeth of the spiteful gusts, and facing the ominous blackness,
they worked their way in until they could see the very place that
the station-keeper had described to them as being a suitable
camping-ground. Five minutes more would take them to its shelter. Just
then Sumner shouted to Worth, and drew his attention to a strange craft
that he had been watching for several minutes. It was coming out of the
cut, running dead before the wind, but yawing and gybing in a manner
that indicated either utter recklessness or absolute ignorance on the
part of its crew. The two canoes were so close together that Worth
could hear Sumner plainly as he shouted:

"It's an Indian canoe, and apparently unmanageable. I'm going to up
sail and run down for a look at it. Do you paddle in to shore, and be
out of harm's way before that squall bursts."

"Oh, Sumner, don't run any risks!" shouted Worth.

"All right, I'll be careful. But you'll make things a great deal easier
for me if you will start at once for shore. That's a good fellow."

So Worth did as his friend desired, and Sumner, hoisting his
double-reefed main-sail, bore down on the strange canoe, which would
otherwise have passed him at quite a distance. It was going at a
tremendous pace, and as the two craft neared each other, Sumner saw to
his consternation that the sole occupant of the dugout was a child who
stretched out its little arms imploringly towards him. He saw this as
the runaway canoe, under full sail, shot across his bow.

A tumult of thought flashed through the boy's mind like lightning. He
was near enough to land to reach it in safety. That child, if left
alone, was rushing to certain destruction. He might be able to rescue
it, and he might not. The chances were that he would lose his own life
in the attempt. Very well; could he lose it in a better cause? What
would his father have done under similar circumstances? That last
question was sufficient. There was no longer any room for argument.

Even during his moment of hesitation the boy had been loosening the
reef-line of his main-sail, and simultaneously with his decision a
quick pull at the halyard exposed its full surface to the wind. Over
heeled the canoe, with Sumner leaning far out on the weather side. Then
her head paid off, and under the influence of the first blast of the
squall she sprang away like a frightened animal, in the direction taken
by the runaway.

That same afternoon a fleet of Indian canoes, containing Ul-we and
his companions, had crossed Biscayne Bay from the main-land. Instead
of descending the river on which they had left our explorers, they
had skirted the edge of the 'Glades to another that flowed into the
bay, the secret of which they did not choose to have Lieutenant Carey
learn. Although it still lacked a day of new moon, they decided to take
advantage of the fair wind, cross the bay, and spend the intervening
time in catching and smoking a supply of fish at a point several miles
above Cape Florida.

In the canoe with Ul-we was his six-year-old brother, the little
Ko-wik-a, who was sometimes allowed to hold the sheet while they were
sailing, and who considered himself fully competent to manage the boat
alone. However, being very wise in some things, he did not say this nor
express in words his longing for a chance to prove his skill. He simply
waited for an opportunity that was not long in coming.

After the Indians had pitched their camp, Ul-we, taking Ko-wik-a with
him, went up to the cut to set a net into which fish would run with the
flood-tide. Reaching the place, he went into the mangroves to cut some
poles, leaving his little brother in the canoe.

This was Ko-wik-a's chance, and he was quick to seize it. He would now
show Ul-we that if he was little, he could sail a boat. The big brother
had hardly disappeared when the little one shoved the canoe out from
the mangroves and grasped the sheet in his chubby hands. The sail was
already hoisted. He did not try to steer, but the wind and swiftly
ebbing tide did that for him. A minute later and he was running out of
the cut at racing speed, wholly jubilant over the complete success of
his experiment. When he got ready to turn round and go back, he became
a little frightened to find out that something more than wishing to do
so was necessary. When his craft shot out from the cut, and, leaving
the land behind, headed out into an infinitely larger body of water
than the little fellow had ever before seen, he became thoroughly
demoralized, and began to call loudly for Ul-we.

Poor Ul-we had just discovered that both his little brother, whom he
loved better than anyone or anything in the world, and his canoe had
disappeared, and was rushing frantically towards the outer beach. His
instinct told him what had happened, and his one hope was to reach the
end of the cut in time to swim off and intercept the runaway.

When he did get there it was only in time to catch a fleeting glimpse
of his own well-known sail far out at sea, with another much whiter and
smaller one behind it. Then a cruel squall burst over the ocean. In a
cloud of rain and mist, borne forward by the fierce wind, the two sails
disappeared and the whole landscape was blotted from view.

From a place of safety on the opposite side of the cut, though unseen
by Ul-we, Worth Manton strained his eyes for a last glimpse of the
_Psyche's_ fluttering signal flag, and the others, rapidly nearing him,
wondered at his gesture of despair as it was blotted out.

The squall was long and fierce, and by the time it had passed, the
darkness of night had shut in and the stars were shining.




CHAPTER XXXIX.

A BLACK SQUALL AND THE STRANDED STEAMER.


Although the _Psyche_ was flying at racing speed dead before the wind,
which freshened with each moment, and was rolling frightfully under
her press of canvas, she was no match in running for the long dugout
of which she was in pursuit. Had the latter been properly trimmed and
steered, the light cedar canoe could never have caught it. As it was,
Sumner saw that he was gaining, but so slowly that he could not hope to
overtake it before being carried miles out to sea. In that weather and
with night coming on, this was by no means a cheerful prospect. Still
he had no thought of turning back. He had entered upon this race with a
full knowledge of its possible consequences, and he would either save
the helpless little figure that had appealed to him so imploringly, or
perish with it.

So the clutch on his deck tiller tightened, and the taut main-sheet
held in the other hand was not slackened a single inch, until the
hissing rush of the black squall was in his ears. Then the canoe was
sharply luffed, the sheet was dropped, the halyard cast off, and the
white sail fell to the deck like a broken wing. As it was gathered in
and made fast with a turn of the sheet, the squall burst on the stanch
little craft and heeled it far over. It offered too little resistance
to be capsized, and a minute later, steadied by the double-bladed
paddle, it was once more got before the wind and was scudding under
bare poles.

While doing all this, Sumner had been too busy to look after the object
of his pursuit. Now he could not see it, and he almost choked with the
thought that his brave effort had been made in vain, after all. No,
there it was, close at hand, but no longer showing a sail or flying
from him. Heeling over before the blast, its long boom had been thrust
into the water, and in an instant the slender craft had been upset.
Now, full of water, it floated on one side like a log. At first, Sumner
failed to see its tiny occupant, and the thought that he had been
drowned almost within reach was a bitter one. But no. Hurrah! There he
is! With head just above the water, and chubby hands clutching at the
slippery sides of his craft, the plucky little chap was still fighting
for life.

As the _Psyche_ swept alongside, steered to a nicety, Sumner reached
out, and, nearly overturning his canoe by the effort, caught the little
fellow by an arm. The water was pouring in over the cockpit coaming,
and had the child been a pound heavier, the next instant would have
seen two helplessly drifting canoes instead of one. As it was, he
was hauled in and safely deposited in the inch or more of water that
swashed above the cockpit floor.

With infinite self-possession the child smiled up into the face of his
rescuer and lisped: "How, Sumner!"

Then the boy recognized the little Ko-wik-a, whose acquaintance he had
made in Ul-we's camp, and as a relief to his own overstrained nerves,
called him a little imp, and abused him roundly for getting them
into such a scrape. At the same time tears stood in his eyes, and he
could have hugged the child cuddling between his knees and smiling so
confidingly in his face.

[Illustration: SUMNER RESCUES KO-WIK-A.]

Though the rescue of Ko-wik-a had been so happily accomplished, they
were still in a sad plight--driving out to sea in an egg-shell, with no
chance of battling back against the tempest, and the darkness of night
enshrouding them. With each moment the storm-lashed waves were mounting
higher. All Sumner's skill was required to prevent the canoe from
broaching to and turning over. How much longer would his strength hold
out? Already he felt it failing. He would soon become exhausted, and
then--

Hark! What was that? The note of a steam-whistle? Yes, and another, and
still others, struggling back hoarsely against the wind. Then a light
twinkled through the darkness, and directly other lights were outlining
a huge black shape right in their track.

Sumner remembered the steamer he had seen just before parting from
Worth. Could this be she? What was she doing there, apparently at
anchor?

Driving under her stern, a few minutes' hard paddling brought the canoe
into the quiet calm of the towering lee. Then Sumner shouted again and
again, but the voice of the ship calling for aid in her own distress
drowned his cries. After a while the whistle notes ceased, and he
shouted again. This time he was heard, and an answering hail came from
the deck high above him, "Who is it, and where are you?"

Sumner answered, and in a few minutes a port low down in the ship's
side was flung open, and a flood of light poured from it. Two ropes
were lowered, and Sumner getting the bights under the bow and stern of
his canoe, it, with its occupants, was lifted to the level of the open
port. Strong arms first received the little Ko-wik-a, and then helped
the young canoeman aboard the steamer.

"Where is your vessel?" demanded the captain, who was among those
assembled to witness this unexpected arrival.

"There," answered Sumner, pointing to the _Psyche_.

"You don't mean to say that you are navigating the ocean in that
cockle-shell?"

"Yes, I do; though I don't expect I should have navigated it much
longer if I hadn't fallen in with you just as I did. How do you happen
to be at anchor here, and what were you whistling for?"

"We are not at anchor. We are aground, and I was blowing the whistle
in the hope of attracting some vessel or vessels, into which we could
lighter our cargo. Now I suppose I shall have to throw it overboard."

"What for?" asked Sumner. "With this offshore wind there won't be any
heavy sea, and unless you have stove a hole in her bottom she ought to
float with the flood-tide."

"Flood-tide! Isn't it the top of the flood now?" exclaimed the captain.

"No; it's the very last of the ebb, and the flood will give you a
couple of feet more water."

"Are you certain of that?"

"Certain."

"Then you are a trump!" cried the captain. "And I'm away out of my
reckoning, somehow. Your coming just as you have has undoubtedly saved
my cargo, for I should have begun heaving it overboard by this time.
You see, I was hugging the coast to escape the force of the Gulf as
much as possible, but was keeping a sharp lookout for the red buoy that
marks the end of the reef. I can't imagine how we missed it, unless it
has gone; but we did, and when Fowey was lighted, I saw that we were
too close in shore. I didn't know that we were inside of the reef; but
we struck within five minutes after I altered her course, and that was
nearly half an hour ago. We don't seem to have hit very hard, and she
lies easy without making any water; but she's here to stay, unless, as
you say, the flood-tide will lift her off. You are certain that this is
the last of the ebb?"

"As certain as that I am standing here," answered Sumner, who had a
very distinct recollection of how the current had rushed out through
the cut.

"Then let us go up into my room and have some supper. There you
can tell me how you happened to be out here in such weather with a
pickaninny aboard while we wait for the tide."

How safe and comfortable the great ship seemed, after that wild race to
sea in a canoe! How the captain and mates and passengers marvelled at
Sumner's adventures, and what a pet they all made of little Ko-wik-a.
As for that self-possessed young Indian, he accepted all the attentions
lavished upon him in the most matter-of-fact manner, and with the
utmost composure. He expressed no surprise at anything he saw; but his
keen little eyes studied all the details of his novel surroundings, and
he stored away scraps of startling information with which to astonish
his young Everglade comrades for many a day.

The squall passed and the sea smoothed out its wrinkles soon after
the crew of the _Psyche_ came aboard, and shortly before midnight the
rising tide lifted the great ship gently off the reef. She was backed
to a safe distance from it, and there anchored to await the coming of
daylight.

Knowing what anxiety his friends and Ko-wik-a's friends must be
suffering on their account, Sumner determined to return to them at the
earliest possible moment. The first signs of dawn, therefore, found the
_Psyche_, with her crew and passenger, once more afloat. A hearty cheer
followed the brave little craft as she glided away from the great
ship, and in less than an hour she was paddled gently up to where the
other canoes and the cruiser lay on the beach.

It had been a sad night to the inmates of that lonely camp, and most of
its long hours had been spent in a fruitless watching for the return
of the well-loved lad, whom most of them had such slight hopes of ever
again seeing. Only Worth had faith, and declared that while he did not
know how Sumner would manage it, he was confident that he would turn up
again all right somehow. Towards morning their anxiety found relief in
a troubled sleep, and as Sumner walked into the camp there was none to
greet him or note his coming.

"Hello, in the camp!" he shouted. "Here it is almost sunrise and no
breakfast ready yet!"

No surprise could be more complete or more joyful than that. Worth was
the first to spring to his feet.

"He's come back safe and sound!" he shouted. "Oh, Sumner, I knew you
would! I was sure of it, and told them so!"

"The next time I let you away from my side it will only be at the end
of a long rope, you young rascal, you!" said the Lieutenant, after the
extravagant joy of the first greeting had somewhat subsided.

After an unusually late and happy breakfast, they sailed through the
cut and into the beautiful bay to which it led. They soon discovered
the camp to which Ko-wik-a belonged, and the canoe that had rescued
him had the honor of bearing him to it. He was received with a
wondering joy that was none the less real for its lack of extravagant
manifestation. As Ul-we took the child from Sumner's arms, he turned
his face away to hide the emotion that would be unbecoming in an Indian
and a warrior. It was there, however, and the look of intense gratitude
that he gave the boy was more expressive than any words that he could
have uttered.

Then the Indians broke their camp, and they and the whites sailed away
together to the appointed rendezvous on Cape Florida.




CHAPTER XL.

THE HAPPY ENDING OF THE CRUISE.


On their entire cruise our young canoemates had not enjoyed a day's
run so much as they did this one in company with the Indians who had
crossed the Everglades with them, but of whom they had seen so little.
The wind was so fair that the boats without centre-boards could sail as
well as those with, and the run was a series of match races, of which
the _Psyche_ and _Cupid_ were winners in nearly every case.

As Ul-we's canoe had been lost the night before, the Lieutenant invited
both him and the little Ko-wik-a to a sail in the _Hu-la-lah_, and even
the self-contained young Indian was compelled to express his admiration
of the graceful craft. When he ventured to ask what such a canoe would
cost, and the price was named, his face indicated his despair at ever
being able to accumulate such a sum, and he murmured:

"Heap money! Injun no get um."

At Cape Florida, while the camps were being pitched but a short
distance from each other, the boys went with Ul-we to set another
fish-trap, such as he had been about to prepare when Ko-wik-a ran away
with his canoe the day before. The little fellow went with them, but
he no longer showed any inclination to go sailing on his own hook.
After Ul-we had fixed his trap they went over to a submerged bank that
extends southward several miles from the cape. Here, while the boys
waded in the shoal water collecting sea porcupines, urchins, tiny
squids, bits of live coral, and numberless other marine curiosities,
Ul-we was busy gathering and throwing into his canoe a quantity of big
greenish shells that looked like so many rocks. When they were ready to
go back, and Sumner saw this novel cargo, he exclaimed:

"Good! Now we will have some conch soup for dinner!"

"How do you know?" asked Worth.

"Because here are the conchs, and Ul-we has enough for all of us."

"Those things!" cried Worth, in a tone of disgust. "You surely don't
mean that they are good to eat?"

"Yes, I do," laughed Sumner, picking up one of the shells and showing
Worth the white meat with which its exquisitely pink interior was
filled. "I mean that these fellows can be made into the very best soup
I know of."

"Seems to me I have seen that kind of a shell before," said Worth, "but
I never knew that any one ever ate their contents."

"Of course you have seen the shells. You will find them in half the
farm-houses of the country, where, with the point of the small end cut
off, they are used as dinner horns. As for the eating part, you wait
till Quorum gives you a chance to test it this evening. If you don't
find it fully as good as sofkee, then I shall be mistaken."

The boys had been greatly disappointed at not finding either the
Mantons' yacht nor the _Transit_ awaiting them at the cape. Several
times in the course of the afternoon they climbed to the top of an
abandoned light-house tower near their camp, in the hope of sighting a
sail bound in that direction. As they did so just before sunset, they
saw several far over towards the main-land, but they were too distant
for their character to be distinguished.

Never had they seen anything so exquisitely beautiful or so royally
gorgeous as that Southern sunset, and they lingered at the top of the
tower until the last of its marvellous flame tints had burned out, and
the delicate crescent of the new moon was sinking into the 'Glades
behind the distant pine-trees of the main-land.

At supper time Worth was introduced to conch soup, and he agreed with
Sumner that it was fully equal to sofkee.

After supper the boys strolled over to the Indian camp, to which
Lieutenant Carey was attracted soon afterwards by their shouts of
laughter. He did not recognize the boys until they spoke to him, for
they had persuaded Ul-we to array them as he had after the forest fire,
and they were now in full Indian costume.

In the mean time the distant sails that they had sighted from the top
of the old tower had been running across the bay before a brisk breeze,
and two vessels had quietly come to anchor just inside the cape. The
glow of the camp-fires could be seen from these, and from one of them a
boat containing several persons pulled in to the beach. A minute later
two gentlemen, whose footsteps were unheard in the sand, stood on the
edge of the circle of firelight, and one of them said to the other, in
a low and disappointed tone:

"It's only an Indian camp after all, Tracy."

"So it is," replied the other, regretfully. "Still, they may be able to
give us some news. Let's go in and inquire."

At that moment the attention of the Indians was equally divided
between Sumner, who was apparently accumulating a fortune by taking
half-dollars from little Ko-wik-a's mouth and ears, and Worth, who was
attempting to dance what he called a clog with Indian variations, to
the music of Lieutenant Carey's whistle. Suddenly little Ko-wik-a, who
was nervously excited over Sumner's wonderful performance, uttered a
startled cry and sprang to one side, staring into the darkness.

All the others looked in the same direction, and probably the dignified
Mr. Manton was never more surprised in his life than when a young
Indian bounded to his side, flung his arms about his neck, and called
him "Dear father!" His brother was equally amazed when another young
Indian sprang to where he was standing, seized his hand, and called him
"Mr. Tracy!"

When they discovered, by their voices and by what they were
incoherently saying, that these young Indians were not Indians at all,
but the very boys of whom they were in search, tanned to the color of
mahogany, and dressed in borrowed finery, the surprise and delight of
the two gentlemen can better be imagined than described.

"Is it possible," cried Mr. Manton, holding Worth off at arm's-length
so that the firelight shone full upon him, "that this can be the
pale-faced chap with a cough who left me in St. Augustine a couple of
months ago? Why, son, you've grown an inch taller and, I should say,
six in breadth!" Then, turning to the other boy, and scanning his
features closely, he added: "And is this Sumner Rankin, the son of my
old schoolmate Rankin, whom I lost sight of after he went into the
navy? My boy, for your father's sake, and for the sake of what you
have done for Worth this winter, I want you hereafter to regard me as
a father, and continue to act as this boy's elder brother. Ever since
Tracy told me of you I have been almost as impatient to meet you as to
rejoin Worth, for as schoolmates your father and I were as dear to each
other as own brothers."

While this joyful meeting was taking place, a boat from the _Transit_
had come ashore, and Ensign Sloe was reporting to Lieutenant Carey.
Then the whole party had to sit down where they were, and, surrounded
by the grave-faced Indians, tell and listen to as much of the past two
months' experience as could be crowded into as many hours.

The Mantons were charmed with Lieutenant Carey, and he with them, while
towards Ul-we their gratitude was unbounded. Old Quorum, too, was
introduced, and warmly thanked for his fidelity to the young canoemates.

[Illustration: THE SURPRISE AND DELIGHT OF THE TWO GENTLEMEN CAN BE
BETTER IMAGINED THAN DESCRIBED.]

Before the schooners sailed for Key West, which they did the next
day, Lieutenant Carey presented Ul-we with the _Hu-la-lah_, and Worth
gave him the handsomest rifle in his father's collection, besides
promising to send little Ko-wik-a a light canoe for his very own.
Mr. Manton and Uncle Tracy between them not only purchased from the
Indians, at fabulous prices, the costumes in which they found the boys,
but everything else they could think of that would aid in reproducing
their present appearance and surroundings for the benefit of their
Northern friends. The properties they thus acquired included bear,
wolf, panther, and deer skins, and even a sofkee kettle with its great
wooden spoon. Besides this, they and the Lieutenant so loaded the
Indian canoes with provisions, tobacco, cartridges for their rifles
and shot-guns, and other useful things, that this occasion formed a
theme for conversation about every camp-fire throughout the length and
breadth of the Everglades for many a long day. Should Lieutenant Carey
and his party ever care to penetrate those wilds again, they will be
certain of a hearty welcome, and of being allowed to go where they
please.

Then the two yachts set sail for their run down the reef to Key West,
where another joyful greeting awaited the young canoemates.

Before the Mantons left there, it was arranged that Mrs. Rankin should
dispose of her Key West home as soon as possible, and sail for New
York, where Mr. Manton said he had a cosey little house waiting for
just such tenants as herself and Sumner.

"Be sure and come as quickly as you can," he said, "for I want my
new boy to design and build me a yacht this summer for next winter's
cruising."

"I shall need one too," added Uncle Tracy, "and I think I know of
several more that will be wanted."

"Don't forget to bring the _Psyche_ with you, Sumner!" shouted Worth,
the last thing.

"As if I would!" answered Sumner. "Whatever boats I may own, I will
never part with that dear canoe so long as I live."

That evening, as the boy and his mother sat discussing their pleasant
prospects for the future, Sumner said:

"Well, mother, I have learned one thing from the past two months'
experience, and that is that wealthy people can be just as kind and
considerate, and may be as dearly loved, as poor ones. I didn't believe
it at one time, but now I know it."




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber's note:

  Obvious spelling and punctuation errors have been corrected.

  Archaic, dialect and alternative spelling has been retained.

  Blank pages facing illustrations have been removed.

  Emphasised text is shown thus: _italics_  =bold=



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CANOEMATES***


******* This file should be named 62301.txt or 62301.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/2/3/0/62301


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

